The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) settled a third- party motor claim on his behalf without his knowledge. Mr G says he did not cause any damage and he now has an accident logged on his claims' history which has resulted in increased premiums. 
What happened
Mr G operates in the motor industry. He took out a Motor Trade Road Risks policy with Ageas. In January 2022, Ageas were contacted by a third-party insurer alleging Mr G was involved in an incident. Mr G sent Ageas a statement explaining that his car slid on some debris on the road, and he got close to the third-party vehicle but he didn't feel any collision. He asked the third-party driver if contact was made, and she confirmed it was. Having inspected the third-party vehicle, Mr G says there was a slight blemish to the bumper which he considered to be consistent with the overall age and condition of the car. Mr G didn't think he had made contact with the third-party vehicle. Nevertheless, to appease the third-party, Mr G offered to have the blemish mark polished out. The third-party refused Mr G's offer and indicated she would contact her insurer. Ageas were contacted by the third-party's insurer wanting to make a claim and Ageas wrote to Mr G on 1 February 2022 to request further information from him. Ageas didn't initially receive a claim outlay from the third-party so they closed the file. However, they were presented with a claims' outlay request in May 2022 and ultimately concluded that on balance, Mr G had more likely than not caused the damage claimed for, and therefore proceeded to settle the claim. Ageas said the claim for the damage was minimal and the repair documents showed that only a minor amount had been claimed for paint, materials, and labour. Ageas therefore didn't suspect the claim to be fraudulent. However, Ageas didn't inform Mr G that they had reopened and settled the claim. Mr G attempted to renew his policy a year later in 2023, when he was informed that there had been a claim paid on his policy. He thought this was unfair as he was sure he hadn't made contact with the other driver and was unhappy that Ageas had settled the claim without his knowledge. Ageas concluded that on balance, they thought contact was made with the third-party vehicle, they therefore couldn't evidence that the damage wasn't caused by Mr G's vehicle. So, they couldn't defend the claim because they felt there was no prospect of success if the matter proceeded to court. One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She recommended the complaint be upheld and felt that Ageas had settled the claim unfairly because Mr G had told them he hadn't collided with the other driver's vehicle. And because he had provided photos that appeared to support this Ageas were wrong to accept liability. Our Investigator said that Ageas should remove the record of the claim, reinstate Mr G's no claims bonus, reimburse any additional premium he has incurred as a result of the claim being recorded against him, and pay 100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr G agreed with our Investigator's assessment, but Ageas did not - so the matter has been passed to me to consider. My provisional decision I sent Mr G and Ageas my provisional decision on 24 May 2024. I explained why I was intending to uphold this complaint in part. I said the following in my provisional decision: Having considered everything carefully, while I think Ageas' communication could have been better - I don't think Ageas has acted unfairly in settling the claim. I will set out my reasoning below. Mr G has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. I want to assure him that I've read and carefully considered everything he has said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose of my decision isn't to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G, and Ageas, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In Mr G's complaint letter to the Ombudsman Service, he said that he didn't think his vehicle caused any damage to the third-party vehicle. Whilst he clearly didn't agree with Ageas' decision on settling the claim, what he is also disputing is that he was told the claim was closed and then Ageas reopened and settled the claim without his knowledge. He says this is impacting his premiums, but he's not liable for the claim as no damage was caused. This is clearly a matter of great principle to Mr G and I fully understand he feels frustrated with the way Ageas has settled the claim when he believed he didn't cause any damage. It isn't my role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, my role in complaints of this nature is to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did they act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? In the terms and conditions of Mr G's policy, Ageas' ability to determine liability is included under the heading How to claim and how to tell us about claims which may be made against us. Here it says, in summary, Ageas has total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim. So, Ageas is entitled, under the terms and conditions of their policy with Mr G, to take over, defend, or settle a claim as they see fit. And this means Ageas can settle the claim as they feel appropriate irrespective of what Mr G said and whether he agreed with the outcome or not. That means they don't require Mr G's knowledge or consent to decide how to settle a claim. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I don't find it unusual. And I think it's a reasonable term, as ultimately Ageas will have to pay any settlement, so they should be able to decide how to settle. This having been said, I would still expect Ageas to act reasonably when relying on this term and properly consider the matter before proposing a settlement. It is not in dispute that Mr G was at the scene of the incident and that he spoke to the third- party driver. His email to Ageas in February 2022 says, in summary, that he was waiting to turn left and when he turned the corner, his vehicle slid on some debris. He got very close to the third-party vehicle but didn't feel a collision. He then spoke to the third-party driver whoconfirmed he had made contact with her vehicle. Mr G inspected her vehicle. He said in his email to Ageas: I could see no damage to the vehicle apart from a minute blemish which is consistent with other blemishes on all panels of the car, the usual things you would see on a car of this age. I explained that there was nothing there apart from the minute blemish which is not even visible on the photographs. However she was very erratic and to appease the lady I said I would arrange for the vehicle to be booked into the local body shop to get the blemish polished out even though I believe I had not even come into contact with the vehicle. Ageas said that having considered the email from Mr G, as well as the evidence provided from the third-party insurer they wouldn't be able to defend the claim. They said on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not Mr G had caused the damage claimed for. And so, they considered it best practice to settle the claim. The evidence that Ageas had to consider was the two drivers' versions of events and photographs of the damage on the third-party's vehicle. Having reviewed the matter, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that some contact had been made between the vehicles, and as such they couldn't evidence that no damage had been caused. I say this because, while Mr G maintains he didn't feel a collision with the third-party, he does say that his vehicle slipped on the road, showing that he lost control. He also stopped after the accident and asked whether a collision had occurred, indicating to me that he considered it possible that there had been contact between the vehicles. Finally, I can see that Mr G identified a blemish on the vehicle and offered to have this polished out. Ageas also confirmed that the damage in the outlay presented was minimal, and consistent with the circumstances provided. So, taking all of this into account, I'm satisfied Ageas acted in line with Mr G's policy terms and conditions and took into account the available evidence when they made their decision to settle the claim. I think Ageas investigated matters reasonably. Mr G may disagree with their interpretation of the evidence and their decision to settle the claim, but I don't think they exercised their discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to do so. I'm therefore satisfied that Ageas doesn't need to take any further action in respect of the claim settlement. I have also thought about how Ageas communicated the claim handling process to Mr G, I think that their actions fell short of what could be considered reasonable. While they initially explained that the claim file would be closed, they didn't then inform Mr G that they had reopened and settled the claim following receipt of the claim outlay from the third-party insurer. While I do not think this would have changed the outcome of the claim, I recognise that this would have the potential to cause some distress and inconvenience to Mr G when he found out about the claim at renewal a year later. So, I think Ageas should pay a sum of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Having considered all the circumstances, I think Ageas should pay Mr G 100 compensation for the trouble caused by not keeping him informed about the claim settlement. Responses to my provisional decision Ageas responded to say they accept the ombudsman's comments that Mr G was involved in the incident. Ageas also accepts that they closed the file and didn't inform Mr G when the outlay costs were received. Ageas therefore accepted the provisional decision to pay Mr G 100 compensation. Mr G also responded, and in summary he said the following: The blemish he was referring to was consistent with a car of that age, for example a stone chip. He has a witness (body shop owner) who looked at the car and confirmed there was no damage apart from marks which were consistent with a car of that age. The third-party driver was irate and so he offered to have the bumper buffed, there was no admittance of an accident. He offered this to prevent her from claiming on insurance for something he hadn't done. Mr G asked if the Ombudsman had seen photographs of any damage because his photographs prove there isn't any. Mr G asked if Ageas explained why the claim was opened five months later as there was plenty of time for further damage to occur during that time. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed both parties' responses to my provisional findings, I have come to the same conclusion as that stated in my provisional decision, I will explain why. Mr G asked whether any photographs had been provided of the damage. The only photos I have seen are those provided by Mr G. The photos in question aren't very clear and it's difficult to see whether what can be seen is damage or a reflection of the light. In any event, Mr G says that there were marks on the third-party vehicle, for example stone chips, but they were consistent with the age of the vehicle. So, while I haven't seen any other evidence of the damage, I'm satisfied that that there were marks on the vehicle. What remains in dispute is whether the damage was pre-existing or caused during the incident in question. While Mr G says he didn't feel a collision, I note he stopped to ask the third-party if there was contact and the third-party confirmed there was. Mr G said he offered to buff the bumper because the third-party was irate, and he didn't want her to claim for damage he hadn't caused. Based on Mr G's version of events, on balance I'm persuaded that Ageas were reasonable to conclude that there must have been contact because Mr G stopped to check and the third-party confirmed there was. Mr G also offered to repair the bumper. I don't think Mr G would have offered to fix the bumper if there wasn't damage. Mr G said a body shop owner, who was also collecting his child from the same school as the third-party driver, checked the vehicle on the roadside following the incident. He confirmed there was no damage apart from that which was reasonable for a vehicle of this age. While I appreciate Mr G says the witness said there was no damage caused and the blemish seen on the third-party vehicle was consistent with what would be expected, I note that he wasn't at the scene of the incident to witness what happened. Therefore, I'm persuaded that it's reasonable for Ageas to reach the outcome they did based on the information they had. Mr G queried why the insurer reopened the claim after five months as further damaged could have been caused during this time. I note that the claim was reported by the third-party within a few days of the incident date and the vehicle went in for repair a few days later too. I'm satisfied from the evidence I've seen that the vehicle was presented and repaired within a reasonable period. Ageas closed their file because they didn't receive the outlay costs from the third-party insurer. But I can see this was received the month after the file closed, at which point it was reopened by Ageas. Ageas confirmed the damage was minimal and consistent with what was reported, they there didn't suspect it to be fraudulent. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Taking everything into consideration, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that it's possible some contact was made between the vehicles, and they couldn't evidence that no damage had been caused. I'm satisfied Ageas acted in line with Mr G's policy terms and conditions and took into account the available evidence when they made their decision to settle the claim. Overall, I remain satisfied that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when settling the third- party claim and I don't require Ageas to take any further action in this respect. However, Ageas didn't do enough to keep Mr G informed about the claim reopening. Although I remain satisfied that the same outcome would have been reached even if they had informed Mr G, I think Ageas should pay Mr G 100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. Ageas should pay Mr G 100 compensation for the trouble caused by not keeping informed about the claim status. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.