The complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) settled a third-party claim against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R had a car insurance policy underwritten by LV. In July 2022, Mr R was involved in an accident with a third-party. Mr R says the third-party was responsible and they admitted it at the scene, but LV ultimately settled the third-party claim and dealt with it as a fault claim against his insurance policy. Mr R complained to LV about this. LV said that the claim had been settled correctly as based on what happened, they wouldn't have been able to defend things if it had gone to court. LV also outlined the policy terms allowed them to decide how and whether to settle a claim. But LV accepted they had failed to follow up with the third-party solicitors after Mr R had spoken to LV in May 2023 and offered 100 compensation for this. Mr R remained unhappy and approached the Financial Ombudsman Service. When the complaint came to the Financial Ombudsman Service, LV said they thought the overall decision to accept the claim and record it as fault' was correct, but they recognised there was a lack of investigation at the time. LV said that if they had further investigated, at best they might have been able to negotiate a 50/50 liability with the third-party solicitors. So, they said they'd be willing to amend the claim to being recorded as 50/50 from full fault, and refund 50% of the excess totalling 275. One of our investigators relayed this to Mr R and outlined that in the first instance she felt this was a fair offer, but Mr R didn't agree. The investigator looked into the case further. Whilst she still remained of the view that LV's offer in relation to the claim settlement was fair, she said that there was poor communication by LV and unreasonable delays during the claim. Therefore, in addition to amending the claim to 50/50 and refunding 50% of the excess, she recommended LV pay an additional 100 compensation, taking the total amount to 200. LV agreed with the investigator's recommendations. Mr R didn't agree, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I appreciate it'll come as a disappointment to Mr R, I've reached the same outcome as our investigator. I understand that Mr R holds the third-party responsible for the accident, and he says they accepted liability at the scene. So, Mr R's unhappy that they then made a claim against his insurance and that LV settled it as a fault claim. As explained to Mr R by our investigator, it's not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide the liability and who is responsible for an accident, only the courts can do this. Instead, my role is to consider whether LV reached a reasonable conclusion to settle the claim. Mr R has said that LV has failed to defend his best interests and they should have taken the third-party to court. However, Mr R's policy terms outline what LV will do in the event of a claim: We're entitled to: have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim; and take proceedings, in your name or in the name of any other person claiming under this insurance, at our own expense and for our own benefit to recover any payment we've made or to pursue a claim for damages. So, this means that it is up to LV to decide whether to settle, accept or defend a claim. And an insurer being able to decide whether to settle or defend a claim is very common in motor insurance policies. When reporting the incident to LV, Mr R confirmed there were no eyewitnesses, no Police involvement, no CCTV, no dashcam footage and no photos taken at the scene, either of the location or damage to the vehicles. And based on Mr R's description of what happened, LV didn't consider they would be able to defend the claim if it went to court and so settled it. In principle, I don't think LV acted unfairly by deciding not to take matters to court based on what Mr R had said and the lack of evidence supporting what happened. However, LV accepts that they could have done more to investigate matters at the time, as they didn't request additional evidence from either party, and instead decided to settle the claim fully as a fault claim. LV said that if they had investigated further, they may have been able to negotiate, at best, a 50/50 split liability outcome. So, this is why they have now offered to amend the claim to 50/50, and to reimburse 50% of Mr R's excess (totalling 275). Where a business has made a mistake, we'd look to put the consumer back into the most likely position they'd be in but for the mistake. As 50/50 would have been the best scenario likely achieved had LV handled matters differently, I'm satisfied that by them now offering to do so, and refunding 50% of the excess, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I won't be asking LV to do any more in relation to the claim outcome itself. Whilst I recognise Mr R is unhappy his no claims discount and premiums have been impacted, whether the claim was settled fully at fault or 50/50, this is still treated as a fault' claim against Mr R's policy so the impact of this remains the same. Whilst it is recorded as fault', that isn't to say Mr R is solely responsible for what happened, but instead that LV was unable to recover all costs from the third-party and they had an outlay on the claim. Whilst I'm not going to direct LV to do anything more than they've offered in relation to the claim outcome itself, and I recognise LV offered 100 compensation for not following up on a call Mr R made to them, I agree with our investigator further compensation is warranted here. As noted by our investigator, there has been poor communication during the claim, and Mr R wasn't made aware the claim had been settled until he received his renewal notice. In addition, there were delays in LV's handling of the claim too. And having considered everything that occurred, in addition to what LV has already offered, I agree with our investigator that a further 100 compensation would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
My final decision
It's my final decision that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited: Amend the claim to being 50/50 as already offered if they haven't already done this Refund 50% of the policy excess totalling 275 as already offered if they haven't already done this Pay a total of 200 compensation (including the 100 already offered by LV) Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.