The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained about charges applied by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to pay by direct debit when his landlords insurance policy renewed. As Mr S mainly dealt with the policy and complaint, I will normally only refer to him. 
What happened
Mr S took out a policy with UKI. In the first year, UKI didn't charge interest for paying by monthly direct debit. When the policy renewed, Mr S was charged interest for paying by monthly direct debit. So, Mr S complained, as he said this wasn't what he was told when he took out the policy. When UKI replied to the complaint, it didn't uphold it. It said there was an 8% direct debit charge payable each year, which it waived in the first year as an introductory offer. It said it would only discuss one year at a time, so wouldn't confirm what would happen the following year. Mr S also complained that the premium charged only reduced by a small amount when he changed the sum insured. When UKI replied, it confirmed it had charged the correct premium. So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She said Mr S was aware of the costs of paying by direct debit when the policy renewed and that he could pay in full to avoid interest charges. As Mr S didn't agree, the complaint was referred to me. I issued my provisional decision on 8 May 2024. In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I wasn't planning to uphold the complaint. I said: I'm aware Mr S said he thought UKI wasn't acting in line with the rules introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022 about the premiums offered to new and renewing customers. However, those rules only apply to consumer policies. Mr S's policy was a commercial policy. As it wasn't a consumer policy, this FCA rule didn't apply to it. Mr S has also said that when he first took out the policy, UKI told him the interest free monthly direct debit payments would continue at renewal. I've listened to the phone call where Mr S agreed to take out the policy. Mr S asked UKI's call handler to confirm the policy was on 0% interest. The call handler said it is for the first year. I didn't hear UKI say anything in the call to indicate that monthly direct debit payments would be interest free after year one. I also didn't see anything in the records to suggest that there was any agreement that monthly direct debit payments in future years would be interest free. I also looked at what happened when the policy renewed. In January 2023, UKI issued the renewal schedule. The policy was due to renew on 11 February 2023. Mr S complained to UKI about having to pay interest if he paid by monthly direct debit. UKI replied to the complaint on 10 February 2023 and confirmed that interest was payable on monthly direct debits. Mr S has also told this service that when he received the renewal schedule he knew at that point interest would be payable. So, Mr S was aware before the policy renewed that interest was payable if he paid by monthly direct debit. It was then up to Mr S to decide what to do, including whether he wanted to renew the policy. I'm aware Mr S has said he didn't think it was made clear to him that he could pay the renewal premium in full, as an alternative to paying by direct debit. I've looked at the complaints Mr S raised with UKI. None of the complaint points were about this particular issue. So, he would need to raise this with UKI. I'm unable to comment on it. Mr S also complained that the premium only reduced by a small amount when he changed the sum insured. UKI's policy was automatically index-linked and UKI was unable to remove this from the policy. Mr S was unhappy about this because he said the property valuations he had provided were accurate. UKI explained that all it could do was change the sum insured. However, this only reduced the premium by a small amount. Although Mr S might have been disappointed by the size of the reduction, I haven't seen anything to show UKI's recalculation of the premium was incorrect. I'm also aware that while the complaint was with this service, UKI said a 10% discount had been applied when it calculated the premium. Mr S said he hadn't been told this before and that he wanted an explanation of the premium. However, Mr S would need to raise this with UKI. I'm unable to comment on this or require UKI to do anything in relation to it, as it wasn't part of the complaint I'm looking at. Based on everything I've seen, I don't currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require UKI to do anything further. I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at by 5 June 2024. After I issued my provisional decision, Mr S told this Service he hadn't received it. In the same email, he also provided some comments. In summary, these were: there had been a selective use of phone logs to make UKI look good but that didn't give the full picture. he had been put on hold by a UKI manager to investigate what had happened. If a manager had to do this, it showed UKI was unsure why it had charged him extra. UKI hadn't disclosed all the phone recordings and transcripts. UKI was playing a game with this Service, like it had with Mr S. he had not received the extra interest UKI had charged him for the policy even after he had made the payment. UKI hadn't provided a refund, so it hadn't acted in line with our Investigator's instruction. Mr S was sent the provisional decision again. Neither Mr S or UKI replied to my provisional decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. As part of that I've looked at the additional comments Mr S provided, although I'm aware they weren't specifically about my provisional decision. Before I made my provisional decision, I looked at the evidence available to me. I also asked UKI to provide some phone calls. It did so and I listened to the phone calls, including what Mr S and UKI said when Mr S agreed to take out the policy. I also considered other evidence, including UKI's written records for the policy and Mr S's explanation of what had happened. I was satisfied that I had enough information to make a decision about this complaint. I was already aware of what happened when the policy came up for renewal, including Mr S speaking to a UKI manager. This didn't change what I thought about the complaint. When our investigator looked at the complaint, she initially said UKI should refund some of the interest paid on the premiums. However, following further comments and evidence from both parties, she changed her view about this and told both parties how she thought the complaint should be resolved. When I looked at the complaint, I considered what had happened and didn't see any reason for UKI to refund any interest paid and didn't say it should do this. Having looked at this complaint again, I haven't found any reason to change my view about any of the issues that formed part of this complaint or what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. As a result, I don't uphold this complaint or require UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.