The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited charged her a higher premium for her motor insurance policy because of an incident that had occurred when she was with her previous insurer. Ageas is the underwriter of this policy i. e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agents. As Ageas has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Ageas includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In June 2023, Mrs M took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas via a comparison site. The policy was to start in July. A few days later, Ageas sent Mrs M a letter asking her to contact it. It told her the information showing on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database was different to what had been disclosed when she'd taken out the policy. Ageas asked Mrs M to contact it urgently so it could validate the information for this query and ensure it could continue to provide her with insurance cover. It sent Mrs M another letter a few days later advising her that if it didn't hear from her in seven days it would cancel her policy. Mrs M phoned Ageas and said she didn't remember making a claim. She agreed to contact her previous insurer and provide evidence. Mrs M phoned Ageas back after speaking to her previous insurer and said she had informed the insurer of an incident but hadn't made a claim. A few days later, Mrs M forwarded an email from her previous insurer to Ageas. This email confirmed that an incident had occurred in January 2023, but a claim was not pursued, and the file had been closed. Ageas sent Mrs M another letter asking her to contact it. It said if it didn't hear from her in the next seven days it might have to cancel her policy. A week later, Ageas sent Mrs M another letter giving her another week to contact it. Ageas didn't hear from Mrs M, so it cancelled her policy and said it was issuing a refund and she'd been charged a 25 cancellation fee. A few days later Mrs M called Ageas. She was unhappy that her policy had been cancelled. Ageas provided Mrs M with a quote for a new policy but Mrs M thought this was too high, so she declined it. She purchased another policy with Ageas through the comparison site. However, she didn't disclose the January 2023 incident, so Ageas sent Mrs M another letter asking her to contact it about the information on CUE. Mrs M phoned Ageas who told her that she needed to disclose an incident regardless of whether there was a claim. It amended the policy to take the incident into consideration which resulted in Mrs M's premium increasing by 108. 20. Mrs M was unhappy about the increase in the premium and the service she'd received from Ageas, so she raised a complaint. Ageas said it was correct to cancel the initial policy Mrs M had purchased with it. It acknowledged Mrs M had provided evidence from her previous insurer but that hadn't resolved the matter. It had written to Mrs M on two separate occasions to prevent the cancellation of the policy. As no contact was made, the policy was cancelled correctly. It said the additional 108. 20 Mrs M had been charged was correct as she had failed to disclose the incident when she purchased the policy via the comparison site. The policy had to be corrected and the resulting cost paid. Ageas acknowledged that Mrs M had encountered long waiting times when she'd called and said it was refunding her the 25 cancellation fee she'd been charged as an apology. Mrs M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. She said she didn't think it was correct for Ageas to charge her an extra high premium as no incident had occurred. Our investigator looked into Mrs M's complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. She was satisfied that Ageas had treated Mrs M fairly in relation to the pricing and administration of the policy. And she thought Ageas had fairly compensated Mrs M for some poor service by refunding a cancellation charge and waiving a service charge. Mrs M disagreed with our investigator's outcome. She didn't think it was fair for Ageas to have charged her a higher premium for the incident when no claim had been made. She said she wanted a refund for 108. 20 which she felt had been unduly taken from her. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold Mrs M's complaint. I'll explain why. The policy's terms and conditions say: We may cancel your policy by sending you, or (the intermediary) sending you, 7 days' notice to your last known address or email address, if we have a good reason to cancel your policy. It goes on to list some examples of situations where Ageas might do this which includes: you providing us with incorrect information, and failing to put this right when we ask you to. Mrs M says she didn't declare there had been an incident when she first took out the policy with Ageas because there wasn't one. However, after receiving a letter from Ageas and speaking to it over the phone, she forwarded it an email from her previous insurer which confirmed that there was an accident which had happened in January 2023. The email said the insurer had closed its file as it had not received a claim from the third party in over six months. After receiving this email, Ageas sent Mrs M two letters asking her to contact it within seven days and warning her that the policy might be cancelled if she didn't. So, I don't think it was unreasonable for Ageas to cancel the policy when Mrs M didn't respond. I appreciate Mrs M doesn't think it's fair for Ageas to charge her an additional 108. 20 because of the incident that occurred in January 2023 when there wasn't a claim. However, it's not unusual for the premium an insurer charges to be affected in this situation. That's because the fact that an incident has happened, however minor it may be and regardless of who may have been at fault, signals to an insurer that a policyholder is statistically more likely to make a claim in the future. I do understand Mrs M's concerns about a notification only event having an impact on the premium of the policy. But it's up to the insurer to decide what ratings to apply and what risk model to adopt when pricing a policy. Ageas has provided us with a screenshot to show how the price of the policy was affected when it added the notification only event to its system a few days after Mrs M took out the second policy. I can't share this information with Mrs M because it's commercially sensitive. But I'm satisfied from what I've seen that the price she's been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly. I've seen no evidence to suggest that other Ageas customers in Mrs M's position will have been charged a lower premium. I understand Mrs M was also unhappy about long wait times on the phone. However, Ageas has apologised for this and has refunded the 25 cancellation fee it had charged her as well as waiving an administration fee of 14. 95. And I think this reasonably recognises the inconvenience she was caused by this. So, while I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs M, I don't require Ageas to do anything further 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mrs M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.