The complaint
Mr M complains that the renewal price offered by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for his home emergency insurance policy is in breach of fair pricing rules as new business customers are given a discounted price. 
What happened
Mr M received a quote to renew his Heating and Plumbing' policy which he says was significantly higher than what he'd paid the previous year. Mr M says he found the same policy on Aviva's website for cheaper, so he queried this with Aviva. He says Aviva confirmed this was correct as the lower price benefited from an introductory offer only available to new customers. Mr M then cancelled his policy and took out the same policy as a new business customer for the introductory offer price. Mr M complained and said Aviva are acting in breach of the Financial Conduct Authority's (FCA) fair pricing rules by treating existing customers differently to new business customers. Mr M had also previously asked Aviva for his data under a data subject access request (DSAR) and found an internal email which accused Mr M of gaming' Aviva. Mr M complained about this comment being offensive and accusatory. Aviva responded and explained Mr M had contacted them regarding renewal of his policy. They said Mr M explained he wished to take out a new policy at an introductory price, as opposed to renewing his policy. They said they'd found that Mr M had since taken out a new policy and referred to a section of the policy which says new customer promotional offers won't be available for customers who cancel a policy and then take out a new policy. Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought Aviva hadn't treated Mr M unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be disappointed by this but I'll explain why I have made this decision. Fair pricing and fair value The new rules for general insurance pricing which Mr M refers to were introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and home insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules aren't retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price (ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal invite is generated. I acknowledge Mr M is concerned about his renewal not matching the price offered to a new business customer, but this is for a Heating and Plumbing' policy, whereas the fair pricing rules relate to motor and home insurance only. So, there's no requirement for Aviva to provide Mr M with an ENBP for this policy. I acknowledge Mr M says he discussed the difference in price with an agent who informed him the lower price was correct and only new customers were eligible for the introductory offer price. I've looked at the policy terms and conditions and, under a section headed Promotional Offers', it says, If you cancel a policy and youthen purchase a policy with equivalent features then you will not be eligible for any new customer promotional offers. Aviva have also sent our service a screenshot from their website where the promotional offer is advertised, and this does make it clear it's for new business customers for their first year. So, I can't say Aviva treated Mr M unfairly when their agent explained he wasn't eligible for the introductory offer price. I can see Mr M believes the price increase at renewal doesn't represent fair value when compared to the new business price, and he links this to the Consumer Duty principle. The Consumer Duty applies to open products and services from 31 July 2023. Given Mr M received his renewal price after this date, I've looked into this further and I've considered the Price and value' outcome as I believe that is what is relevant to Mr M's concerns. I think it's important to add, this isn't a price-setting rule. The FCA expects firms to assess their products and services to ensure there is a reasonable relationship between the price paid for a product or service and the overall value and benefit a consumer gets from it. When assessing whether the price of a product/service provides fair value, insurers must include consideration of at least the nature of the product/service including the benefits that will be provided and their quality, any limitations that are part of the product/service, and the expected total price customers will pay. In deciding this complaint, I've kept in mind the FCA's expectation that there should be a relationship between price and value. While looking into the price quoted by Aviva, I've also considered the benefits provided and whether the policy offered Mr M fair value. I've firstly taken into account the value measures data published on the FCA's website. The FCA has been focusing on value measures in insurance across a number of products which includes data on how often consumers are claiming on their insurance policy, how likely it is for a claim to be accepted, and the average claims payout. In the case of home emergency insurance which is the policy taken out by Mr M - it shows a claims acceptance rate of 97% and the percentage of premiums paid out in claims as just under 34%. I think this demonstrates this product carries both a value and benefit to consumers. If things happen unexpectedly, and where the terms and conditions of the policy allow, I think this data provides reassurance that a high volume of claims are accepted and therefore offers fair value. Looking more specifically now to Mr M's circumstances, I can see the policy provides cover against a range of insured events and covers his boiler, heating system and plumbing and drainage. I think it's also fair to say, and certainly so in the case of home emergency insurance, there is a lot of value consumers get from peace of mind from owning a product and knowing they're covered against a range of unexpected scenarios. I think it's also important to point out that the cover and benefits provided by Aviva under this policy are broadly consistent with what I would expect to see from such a policy. So, from the information I've taken into consideration, I can't say Aviva haven't met their obligation to offer fair value to Mr M. Internal communications I can see Mr M made a DSAR and within the information he received was an internal email which said, given how the system was set up, there's no solution in place to stop Customer gaming' us like this one is. I acknowledge Mr M feels this is offensive and derogatory, particularly as there was nothing which prevented him from taking out a new policy online. While I'm certainly not disregarding Mr M's comments on how this made him feel, I think the context in which this email was sent and what was being discussed is important here. The information shows Mr M had previously benefited from an introductory offer price and the policy literature makes it clear the promotional offer isn't intended for customers to use again having already benefited from this and then cancelling at renewal to take out a new business policy. The fact that Mr M was able to do so then prompted a discussion around any controls and preventative measures to avoid this situation occurring again. So, while I do acknowledge the term gaming' was used, this was in the context of Mr M being able to benefit from an introductory offer price which, in line with the policy terms, he wasn't eligible to take up, but the system allowed him to. So I don't believe the term itself in this context was intended to be offensive or accusatory as the author of the email recognises there are system issues which need to be resolved. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2024.