The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has declined a home insurance claim for damage to his property. 
What happened
Mr B has a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. He also has home emergency insurance cover attached to the policy, but this is underwritten by a different insurer. In December 2023 Mr B noticed damage to his roof and water coming through the ceiling following bad weather, so he contacted his home emergency provider for assistance. Mr B later contacted Lloyds as he was unhappy with the home emergency provider. Lloyds said that Mr B would need to raise this separately with the home emergency provider as they were a separate insurer, but they said they could see if the damage could be covered under Mr B's home insurance policy. However, following information Lloyds received from the home emergency provider, they declined the claim under Mr B's home insurance policy. This is because Lloyds said there weren't storm conditions at the time so it couldn't be storm related damage, and the information from the home emergency provider was that the damage was the result of wear and tear and maintenance issues, which is excluded under the home insurance policy. Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds' decision, so he approached the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked into things but she didn't uphold the complaint. She said that there weren't storm conditions at the time so a storm claim couldn't be made. She also said the policy excludes maintenance, gradual damage and wear and tear related issues, and an insured event hadn't occurred under the policy. So, she didn't think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining the claim. The investigator also said that if Mr B was unhappy with the service he'd received from the home emergency provider, this would be separate as they are a different insurer to Lloyds. Mr B didn't agree, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I appreciate it'll come as a disappointment to Mr B, I've reached the same outcome as our investigator. I'm only able to consider Lloyds and Mr B's home insurance policy here in my final decision. Whilst I recognise Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from his home emergency provider, they are a different insurer to Lloyds, so I can't consider their actions under this complaint. I understand a complaint has been raised separately with them, if Mr B is unhappy with the outcome of that complaint, he may be able to ask the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider that separately, subject to our usual rules and timescales. Home insurance policies aren't designed to cover every eventuality that might occur. Instead, they are designed to cover specific one-off insured events of damage. And they can also have exclusions that apply to those one-off events of damage, which means a claim wouldn't be covered. Mr B made a claim following bad weather and discovering damage to his home. Mr B's insurance policy does provide cover for storm damage. So, I've considered whether he has a valid storm damage claim under his policy. When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the following three questions, and if any of the answers are no then it's likely a claim won't succeed: Were there storm conditions? Is the damage consistent with storm type damage? Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage? Were there storm conditions? Mr B's policy provides cover for storm damage, this is defined in the policy as: When we say storm' we mean strong winds over 55mph, and/or hail or snow that's extreme enough to damage hard surfaces or break glass. Rain alone is not a storm. We won't pay for any damage if your home is not in good condition. We will, however, pay claims for internal damage if you were unaware that your home was not in a good condition and the damage was caused by torrential rain of 25mm or more in a day. The starting point for a storm damage claim is that there needs to be a storm'. Lloyds says they checked weather reports for the time, but they don't think there were storm conditions. I've also carried out my own weather checks, and in the weeks leading up to the claim being made, there weren't storm conditions as defined in the policy, or that I would deem storm force weather. Windspeeds didn't reach what I would consider storm force conditions. I also recognise part of the claim was for an ingress of water, and the policy does say that internal damage may be covered subject to relevant rainfall conditions being met. But rainfall didn't reach what I would consider storm force rain, or 25mm or more in a day, as outlined in the policy. So, in the absence of storm conditions, there can't be a valid storm damage claim. For completeness, I've also considered the other two questions noted above, although the storm damage claim fails on question one alone. Is the damage consistent with storm type damage? A missing roof tile, and water ingress could be storm type damage, but it could also be a pre-existing issue, which is highlighted by the weather. And as outlined, there weren't storm conditions present. Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage? I can't conclude a storm was the main or dominant cause of the damage, given there weren't storm conditions. In addition to this, the home emergency provider concluded: Erected ladder to front of property and carried out inspection. Found broken tiles. The engineer advised this is a maintenance issue not a storm damage issue Mr B said his own roofer said it was weather related and provide us with an email from them. However, this said: Further to our site visit and roof inspection, your roof has now reached the end of its life expectancy as this is a very common issue in heavy rain as you only have builders paper as a barrier and has degraded over the lif (sic) of the roof. So, this concludes that the roof has reached the end of its life and has deteriorated over time. Mr B's policy excludes: Some things aren't covered under any part of this policy. This section will tell you the things you can't make a claim for. Wear and tear, normal use & damage over time We won't pay claims for: -Damage that happens as something gets older. This is known as wear and tear'. For example, your carpets getting dirty and worn, or the nails in your roof slates corroding, allowing the slates to slip and let water into your home. -Damage that happens slowly over time. This includes things like damp, condensation or rust. Keeping your home in good condition It's up to you to make sure you keep your home in good condition. We won't pay claims for the cost of maintaining your home. We also won't pay claims for the cost of any damage that happens due to a lack of maintenance. For example, water getting into your home because roof tiles are missing, or your shower leaking because the sealant or grout around it has failed. With this in mind, there weren't storm conditions, so I'm satisfied Mr B doesn't have a valid storm damage claim. And the information from both the home emergency provider and Mr B's roofer concluded it is maintenance, gradual damage and wear and tear related, which is excluded in any event. Mr B also has accidental damage cover under his policy, which is defined as: When we say accidental damage' we mean damage that's sudden, unexpected and not done on purpose. There needs to be a one-off, specific event that caused the damage. For example, a football smashes your window or you spill a drink on your carpet. It doesn't include damage that's due to a lack of maintenance or damage that happens slowly over time. For example, if your roof leaks because it hasn't been looked after properly, or your computer breaks down because it's old. The maintenance, gradual damage and wear and tear exclusion above applies to the whole policy including accidental damage. And the accidental damage cover also specifically excludes: We won't pay claims for damage caused by: -Water getting into your home. With the above in mind, I don't think Lloyds has acted unfairly by declining Mr B's claim on the basis there weren't storm conditions, and there isn't a valid insured event under his policy. 
My final decision
It's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2024.