The complaint
Mr R complained that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Car Insurance, mishandled his motor claim and possibly mis-sold his insurance policy to him. Mr R has largely been represented by his son, Mr U, for ease of reading I will mainly refer to Mr U's representations as having been made by Mr R. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident on 22 August 2023, in which he hit a wall. He attended hospital and so his son dealt with the claim on his behalf. Mr R doesn't believe Churchill offered a fair valuation of his car when settling the claim. Mr R also says his son, and by extension himself, have suffered from incompetent claim handling by Churchill. Churchill looked into Mr R's complaint. They maintained the valuation was fair in the circumstances, but they agreed Mr R's son had been given conflicting and confusing information during the claim process as well as spending several hours on the phone. Churchill offered 200 compensation for the level of service provided. Mr R didn't agree with Churchill's conclusions and so brought his case to our service. An investigator here looked into the matter, he felt Churchill's valuation was fair and he also felt the compensation was fair. Mr R still didn't agree, he felt there were sufficient grounds for greater compensation, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr R but I consider Churchill's offer of compensation to have been reasonable. I'll explain why. It may be helpful to begin by clarifying that this is Mr R's policy and Mr R's claim. While I appreciate his son has been representing him throughout the claim and complaint, I'm not in a position to award any compensation to Mr U it's simply not within my remit. I am mindful, however, that it's only natural for Mr U's frustration to have transmitted to Mr R to an extent, even if the brunt of it wasn't caused directly to him. That means I can still consider compensation for distress and inconvenience but only in a limited way. I previously addressed the potential mis-sale issue, in that Mr R felt his cover was wider than it actually was in terms of personal injury. Briefly, while I accepted he may have been misled, I didn't consider there to have been any prejudice caused by that. Rather it was a case of disappointment. Mr R replied to say he no longer expected anything in that respect. However, Mr R said it was what he considered to be an abysmal level of service that warranted further compensation and that 200 was an insult. Although I note the figure of 200 was initially suggested by Mr R. Turning to the valuation of the car, we have a relatively standard approach to assessing whether or not an insurer has treated a consumer fairly, although we may depart from that if there is good reason to do so. Churchill obtained a valuation from a trade guide they would usually obtain them from several of the guides for comparison but bearing in mind Mr R's car was fairly old, that wasn't possible. I don't think it's unreasonable for Churchill to have based their valuation on the trade guide. I note that they made a deduction from that on account of the car having been deemed a total loss in a previous claim. That tends to make cars less desirable to buyers and therefore it is fair to say it would have an impact on the value. Overall, I consider Churchill's valuation of Mr R's car to have been reasonable and I consider their offer of compensation to have been reasonable too. I'm not suggesting that Mr R's son didn't have a very frustrating experience, but it isn't him who is being compensated here. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2024.