The complaint
Ms T has complained about the way Starr International (Europe) Limited (Starr') handled her claim. 
What happened
Ms T was covered under a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Starr. Ms T travelled abroad and unfortunately, a family member needed emergency medical assistance whilst there. A claim was made for expenses including flights and accommodation. Ms T has a representative who dealt with the claim and made a complaint on her behalf. Unhappy with Starr's response, they referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Whilst the complaint was with us, Starr offered to increase its compensation amount from 100 to 300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms T. Our investigator found that this was reasonable because Ms T hadn't been dealing with Starr directly as she had a representative. So she concluded Ms T was largely shielded from the claim handling aspect. Ms T disagreed and in summary, said the delays and claims experience took a toll on her health and although her representative dealt with the claim and complaint, she was kept fully up to date and informed at all times. She doesn't agree that she has been shielded and would like significant compensation. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think the offer of 300 compensation made by Starr is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. I'll explain why. My decision is related solely to Ms T's claim and not the other parties. Starr has accepted that there were service failings and delays with the claim. All sums due have now been paid but Ms T is unhappy with the length of time it took for the claim to be finalised. Starr has offered 300 compensation which Ms T says isn't sufficient. So my decision will focus on the level of compensation offered. As the claim was dealt with by a representative, and even if Ms T was kept fully informed of all communication, she herself didn't need to submit documents, chase Starr and deal with the administrative aspects. So I agree with the investigator's conclusion that she was largely shielded from the claim handling aspect. But I accept that she did suffer distress and inconvenience when her representative undoubtedly would have been reporting to her about Starr's failures. Our compensation award bands are published on our website. An award of 300 is reasonable where the impact is more than minimal and has caused some distress. As set out above, Ms T had a representative to help and assist her so she didn't deal with matters alone. Her representative isn't an eligible complainant and so I cannot consider the impact or the frustration and inconvenience caused to the representative. I think an award of 300 is appropriate due to the minimal practical involvement Ms T had in the claim handling aspect of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think the offer of 300 compensation is reasonable and so I direct Starr International (Europe) Limited to pay this to Ms T. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.