The complaint
Mr M complains Andrea Irving-Morse Associates Limited mis-sold him an income protection policy, and says it unfairly charged him for a commission shortfall following the cancellation of his policy. 
What happened
In 2022, Mr M was working as a self-employed healthcare professional. And he sought financial advice from Andrea Irving-Morse Associates. The adviser recommended an income protection policy with an insurer I will refer to as R, and Mr M decided to take the policy. Following a recommendation from a different adviser in 2023, Mr M decided to cancel his income protection policy with R. R contacted Andrea Irving-Morse Associates advising the policy had been cancelled and that an amount of commission would be reclaimed. Andrea Irving-Morse Associates sent a letter to Mr M in August 2023, asking him to pay a commission shortfall of 904. 07. It said Mr M was responsible for the shortfall as he had cancelled his policy within four years of inception. The adviser has provided a copy of a declaration signed by Mr M in June 2022 which states: I/We confirm that I am/we are agree to the adviser being remunerated on the basis below: By payment for life and general insurance business from provider under an indemnity agreement. I understand that this must remain in force for a period of 4 years from inception in order to cover costs. If cancelled at any time during this period I understand that I am responsible for the shortfall. And it provided a copy of a quotation issued in May 2022 for the policy with R, which set out the commission R would pay to Andrea Irving-Morse Associates over the life of the policy. This states the commission amount was 1,391. 12 in year one of the policy and in years two to four, it was zero. The application form provided by R and completed by Andrea Irving-Morse Associates and signed by Mr M, shows the insurer required to know Mr M's earnings before tax (gross) in the 12 months prior to applying for the policy. And this was completed as 70,000. Mr M complained to Andrea Irving-Morse Associates. He said he thought his policy had been mis-sold and would not have paid out the full monthly benefit in the event of a claim, as he said the adviser had calculated using his gross rather than net earnings. And he said he wanted the shortfall payment to be waived and a refund of the premiums he'd paid for the policy. Andrea Irving-Morse Associates responded and said it didn't think it had mis-sold the policy, and it was correct to ask Mr M to pay the commission shortfall. Unhappy with the response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didn't think Andrea Irving-Morse Associates had done anything wrong. Andrea Irving-Morse Associates accepted the investigator's view. However, Mr M disagreed. In summary he said the liability to repay the shortfall in commission was not disclosed transparently and he was not made aware of a specific amount. He also said the commission amount is disproportionate to the work undertaken. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr M has mentioned the Consumer Duty. But as the events being complained about happened prior to its introduction, I'm unable to consider the Consumer Duty as part of this complaint. Instead I've considered the rules which applied at the time. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Andrea Irving-Morse Associates provided advice it had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr M when it sold it to him. This means it had a duty to consider Mr M's individual needs and circumstances, and based on this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for him. And it needed to provide information on the remuneration it would receive in relation to the contract of insurance and how this worked. Firstly, I should set out that in this decision I will be focusing on the points Mr M raised with Andrea Irving-Morse Associates in his original complaint these related to the sale of the policy and the commission shortfall. Was the policy mis-sold? Mr M has said he should have been asked for his net rather than gross earnings. However I'm satisfied by the application form documents I've seen, the insurer R asked for details of Mr M's earnings before tax (gross) in the 12 months prior to applying for the policy. I've reviewed the income and expenditure completed in 2022, which stated Mr M's income as 70,000. And the fact find document, which reflects the profit he made in the previous two tax years. I've also considered the policy recommendation Andrea Irving-Morse Associates sent to Mr M which stated his salary was 70,000 and the cover would be for 40,000 annually. Mr M accepted this recommendation, and I've seen no evidence that he queried why his earnings had been stated as 70,000 or that he told Andrea Irving-Morse Associates this was incorrect. And I don't think Andrea Irving-Morse Associates' recommendation was unsuitable based on the information Mr M provided. Mr M also raised concerns the policy would not pay out the sum insured. Andrea Irving- Morse Associates recommended a policy to provide cover of 40,000 against Mr M's earnings of 70,000. I've reviewed the Key Facts document sent Mr M in relation to the policy with R, states the following: you can insure up to 65% of the first 15,000 of your earnings and 55% of the remainder of your earnings above 15,000 before tax Based on this I'm satisfied Mr M was not over insured and I've seen nothing that persuades me the policy wouldn't have paid the stated benefit in the event of a successful claim. The commission shortfall The evidence I've seen shows Andrea Irving-Morse Associates was paid a commission by R when it sold Mr M's policy. It's common for an adviser to earn a commission from an insurer when selling a policy. And it's not unusual for the adviser to have a term in place which states the consumer would be responsible for a shortfall in commission if the policy is cancelled early, meaning the adviser doesn't receive the full commission from the insurer. I've gone onto consider whether Andrea Irving-Morse Associates made it clear to Mr M that he would be liable to repay a shortfall if he cancelled his policy. A declaration form signed by Mr M in 2022, stated he agreed he was aware that if the policy was cancelled within four years of it being taken out, he would be liable for the shortfall in commission. And, I've reviewed a copy of the quotation for the policy with R, which was sent to Mr M in 2022. This set out the amounts of the commission paid by R within the first four years of the policy to be 1,391. 12. Mr M cancelled his policy around 13 months after taking it out, so this was within the first four years. Andrea Irving-Morse Associates has asked Mr M to repay 904. 07. I'm satisfied this is proportionate to the amount of time remaining in the four year period in which Mr M was required to repay any shortfall in commission. The evidence has satisfied me that Mr M was made aware he would have to repay commission if he cancelled his policy within four years of taking it out. And that he was made aware of the amount of commission R had paid. Because of this, I'm not persuaded that it was unfair for Andrea Irving-Morse Associates to ask Mr M to pay the shortfall in the commission. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, it's my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I make no award against Andrea Irving-Morse Associates Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2024.