The complaint
The estate of Mr L and Mrs B (as trustee of the L trust) have complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined the claim made when Mr L was diagnosed with a terminal illness. And L&G cancelled the policy because they said Mr L misrepresented his health at the time of purchase. Due to his state of health at the time, Mr L brought this complaint through a representative. Comments referred to in this decision as Mr L's comments include those made by the representative on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr L bought a life insurance policy at the start of 2019. The policy provided cover of 216,000 in the event of his death, or diagnosis with a terminal illness. In summer 2019, Mr L was diagnosed with a type of cancer. In summer 2023, it was sadly confirmed that the cancer was terminal, and he was referred for palliative care. He has recently sadly passed away. Mr L submitted a claim to L&G based on the terminal prognosis. L&G reviewed the available evidence, including Mr L's medical records. They noted that Mr L had seen his GP in early 2017 because of concerns about his blood pressure. The GP had noted his blood pressure was raised and recommended Mr L should continue to monitor this at home. He was invited to return a few weeks later for review. And a year later, he was again invited for a review after a referral from his optician. L&G said this history meant Mr L hadn't answered the health questions on his application accurately specifically the question which said: Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein thrombosis? . Mr L had answered no to that question. L&G said he should have answered yes. They said this was a misrepresentation which allowed them to decline the claim and cancel the policy from the outset. And they arranged to refund Mr L the premiums he'd paid. Mr L complained. In their complaint response, L&G acknowledged they'd not dealt with the claim as quickly as they should have done and paid Mr L 500 compensation for this. In relation to the decision to decline his claim, L&G set out the law they'd relied on to and that they'd categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. They said this meant they weren't required to refund the premiums Mr L had paid, but they would do so anyway. Mr L wasn't satisfied with L&G's response and brought his complaint to our service. Having reviewed the available evidence, our investigator agreed there had been a misrepresentation. But he said it should be categorised as careless. He said that meant L&G should do what they would have done if Mr L had answered the question accurately. And he concluded they would have offered Mr L a policy but would have charged him a higher premium. So he concluded they should pay him the proportion of the settlement his premium provided. I agreed with our investigator that Mr L had made a qualifying misrepresentation and that misrepresentation had been careless. But I didn't agree with their conclusion that L&G would have sold Mr L the policy, but at a higher premium. I concluded the underwriting criteria showed they would have postponed offering cover for six months. On that basis, I didn't think L&G needed to do any more to resolve the complaint. L&G made no comment on my provisional decision. Mr L's representative has said that, had L&G postponed offering cover, he would have got an up to date blood pressure reading from his doctor, which would have shown no reason to postpone cover any longer. The matter's now been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, I'm not upholding this complaint, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and which I've summarised above. I know that will make an already difficult time even more so and I'm very sorry about that. I'll explain why I've not been persuaded to change my provisional decision. My provisional decision said, had Mr L answered yes to the question about raised blood pressure, he would have been directed to a number of additional questions, which had they been answered in accordance with his medical records - would have shown: he wasn't waiting for investigation of his blood pressure, or ever been advised to take medication he'd not been told his blood pressure had returned to normal it had been 23 months since it had been checked by a doctor or nurse he'd been asked to attend for further checks or follow ups Mr L would also have been asked to provide his latest blood pressure check from his surgery. Mr L's representative says this would have showed there were no issues with his blood pressure, and he would have been offered cover. I've considered this very carefully, but I'm not persuaded this is the case. Mr L's medical records don't record any blood pressure readings between February 2017 - when he was told to monitor at home - and summer 2019 - when his pressure was recorded as high enough to need medication. While I've noted what's been said about Mr L monitoring his pressure at home, I've not been provided with any details about what he recorded. Nor does it appear he provided home readings to his GP to be added to his records. So I've no evidence to show Mr L's blood pressure remained stable or dropped between being advised to monitor at home and when he bought his policy at the start of 2019. I don't think it would be fair to conclude without this that his blood pressure at the time he bought the policy was at a level where L&G would have offered a policy. And, for that reason, I don't think they need to do any more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I'm not upholding estate of Mr L's and Mrs B's (as trustee of the L trust) complaint about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask the estate of Mr L and Ms B (as trustee of the L Trust) to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2024.