The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited recorded a claim under his motor insurance policy on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
What happened
In September 2023, Mr S raised a complaint with esure. He said he'd discovered he'd been put on a claims database without having made a claim and his premiums had increased significantly. Mr S didn't receive a response from esure within the appropriate timeframe, so our service asked for its file so we could look into the matter. Esure then responded to Mr S's complaint in December 2023. Esure said Mr S had accepted car hire and a total loss settlement for his vehicle in October 2022. As there were multiple third parties involved in the incident, investigations were still taking place. It said it appreciated this had affected his premium, but it had followed the correct process. If Mr S was not held fully/partly responsible for the incident, it would rerate his premium accordingly. Our investigator looked into Mr S's complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. She said she was persuaded that Mr S was aware a claim was being progressed and she thought esure had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr S disagreed with our investigator's outcome. He said he was specifically told by esure that his premiums wouldn't go up if he sold the car to it. He said that throughout his interactions with esure he'd explicitly stated that he'd not wanted to put in a claim. He was still on a claims database. He said the claim shouldn't take two years to investigate and the claim on the database shouldn't be valid. He also provided at timeline of events. As Mr S disagrees with our investigator's outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold Mr S's complaint. I'll explain why. I can see that Mr S notified esure that his vehicle had been damaged in an accident in October 2022. Mr S says he made a query about a claim, but he didn't go ahead with it. He says he explicitly told esure he didn't want to make a claim. However, esure says Mr S accepted a hire car and was provided with a total loss settlement of 5,589 (less the policy excess). I can see esure sent Mr S an email on 17 October 2022, letting him know that its salvage agent would arrange to collect his vehicle to dispose of it and it had instructed another agent to provide Mr S with a comparable hire car. The email said Mr S's policy excess would be deducted from his total loss payment and its Recoveries department would be handling the claim against the other party. The email also contained the wording: Your No Claims Discount is not Protected and may be reduced at your next renewal date if the claim has not yet been closed, your renewal premium is likely to be affected by this. Esure has noted that Mr S accepted the pre-accident value of the vehicle less the excess a couple of days later. In light of the above, it's difficult to understand how Mr S might not have been aware that he was making a claim under his motor insurance policy with esure. Mr S says he explicitly told esure that if it would affect his premium, he would not sell his car to it. It isn't clear from esure's notes exactly what might have been said about this over the phone. However, an insurance company wouldn't buy a damaged car from a policyholder. The policy's terms and conditions say that if esure settles a claim as a total loss, the vehicle will become its property. Esure has noted that Mr S was considering the option of retaining the salvage for 2,449 but then decided not to. So, ownership of the vehicle would have been transferred to esure once it had paid Mr S the pre-accident value of the car. But this isn't the same as Mr S selling the car to esure. The policy's terms and conditions say: We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies. It means esure is entitled to decide whether to defend or settle a claim made by a third party. I understand the accident involved multiple vehicles, with esure and third party insurers disputing liability for it. So, even if Mr S had decided not to accept esure's offer of a hire car and total loss settlement for his vehicle, he wouldn't have been able to avoid having a claim on the policy. Insurers have a duty to record accurate information on the CUE database. So regardless of how Mr S had wanted to proceed, esure would have needed to record the open claim on CUE. At the time of esure's response to Mr S's complaint (in December 2023) the issue of liability was yet to be resolved. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr S to have an open claim over a year after the accident. However, it's not unusual for claims involving liability disputes to take a long time to conclude, particularly when there are several parties involved. I haven't looked into what has happened beyond December 2023. If Mr S is unhappy about the progress of the claim since then, our service may be able to consider this as a separate complaint. But Mr S would first need to raise this with esure. I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, but I haven't found reason to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr S's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.