The complaint
Mr R has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) failed to notify him that his motor policy had lapsed. Consequently, he was stopped by the police for driving without insurance, his car was seized, he was fined and had points added to his licence. 
What happened
Mr R was driving with his son on 21 September 2023 when the police stopped him for driving without insurance. They seized his car there and then, and subsequently fined him and added points to his licence plus Mr R had to pay to get his car released. Mr R had been insured with UKI for several years. This time his policy wasn't set up to be automatically renewed, and it had expired at midnight on 12 August 2023. Mr R said he hadn't received any notification or reminder from UKI that his policy needed to be renewed. Mr R said when he then phoned up UKI the first operative told him it wasn't his fault, and she was sure it could be sorted out. Also, when he asked this operative what contact details UKI had for him, he realised the email address they had wasn't his and didn't appear to be a coherent email address at all. The mobile phone number was for his old phone which he no longer had. But it did have the right postal address for him. The operative was of the view that UKI had only texted and emailed him about his renewal and that it hadn't posted any letters concerning the renewal to him. However, Mr R's subsequent exchanges with this operative and others within UKI, explained that UKI maintained it had texted him, emailed him, and posted out a letter all concerning his renewal invite. Therefore, it didn't think it had done anything wrong. Mr R disagreed and so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didn't think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr R remained dissatisfied as he believed his initial conversations showed UKI had not posted anything out to him. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll now explain why. I do understand and appreciate Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. However, this service is an evidence-based service and effectively UKI has shown us it also posted out a letter to Mr R. I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we don't act for consumers or businesses, nor do we take instructions from either party, or allow either party to direct the course of our investigations. Were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. It's also up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. I do appreciate Mr R's strength of feeling that we need to hear all the calls he had with UKI as he's adamant that he was told it never posted out any letter. But the fact of the matter is that UKI says it did and it has now shown us a letter dated 19 July 2023. Therefore, this overrules whatever any operative within Churchill might have said to him when he phoned it after being stopped by the police. Consequently, what those calls might say can't contradict that UKI also sent Mr R a letter. It's sadly feasible that the letter might have got lost in the post but that can't be any fault of UKI. Here is what happened with Mr R's policy. It appears Mr R has been insured with UKI for his car since at least 2017. For 2018, 2019 and 2020 his renewal was to be done manually. In 2021 that changed to it being automatically renewed and again in 2022. In 2022 on 15 August, UKI saw Mr R's renewal payment hadn't gone through, so it wrote to him asking him to make contact. Mr R duly made contact with UKI, sorted out the renewal payment and agreed his card could be kept for future transactions. But that didn't mean his policy would automatically renew. His renewal invitation sent on 19 July 2023 explained his policy wasn't set to auto renew. In addition to the renewal letter sent on 19 July 2023, an email reminder was sent on 29 July 2023 and a text reminder was sent on 31 July 2023. These warned his policy would expire too. We now know the email address was just wrong and that Mr R had changed his mobile phone but had forgotten to update UKI with his new number. It's the policyholder's legal duty as regards motor insurance to ensure they are insured if not by renewing their policy, then by searching the market for another provider unless they no longer have a car on the road. Furthermore, it would be for the policyholder to note if the premium was being paid by instalments that then those monthly payments had now stopped. Insurers are required to send an invitation to renew the policy detailing the new premium and what was paid for the last year's policy. And they are required to include the date the policy would end. Insurers are only required to use reasonable means' of contacting the policyholder about the renewal invite and the fact their policy is set to expire. That would usually include by post, by email (if known) and by text (if the mobile phone number was known). Because consumers are perfectly entitled to search the market to find alternative insurance or potentially no longer have a car to drive or are no longer driving for a myriad of other issues, that's where the insurer's duty ends. This is because the legal duty to have motor insurance rests with the consumer not the insurer. It's also the duty of the consumer to ensure the insurer has all the correct contact details and to update the insurer if any of these contact details change. So, as my role is to see if UKI did anything wrong as regards informing Mr R his policy was about to expire given the contact details it had, I don't think it did. That's despite the fact the email address they had for Mr R didn't resemble any normal email address. That in turn is because it did post a letter to Mr R's correct postal address and it was sending texts to the only mobile phone number it had for Mr R. UKI is not responsible for undelivered mail by the postal service, and it's not responsible for the fact Mr R was no longer using this mobile phone number. So as regards the Consumer Duty, I do think UKI tried to give Mr R all the information it was required to do here. I know this isn't the outcome Mr R was hoping for. And I do understand that it was a very distressing experience being stopped by the police, having the car seized there and then in front of his son. I also understand it was further distressing to be fined plus have points added to his licence too. But I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and decide the case on the basis of the evidence. Having done so, it's clear to me that UKI haven't done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.