The complaint
Miss B complains about how esure Insurance Limited dealt with her claim after her car was broken into. 
What happened
In October 2023 Miss B's car was broken into. She contacted esure to make a claim under her motor insurance policy. She's unhappy about the delay in arranging her repairs, the level of service provided by esure, and the time she's had to spend chasing esure about her claim. Miss B raised a complaint with esure. They apologised for the time it took to authorise the repairs to her car, the difficulties she'd experienced when trying to contact them about her claim and how their agents handled her calls. They agreed that the timescale for authorising her repairs was longer than they'd expect. And said they'd provided feedback to those concerned regarding how her calls had been handled. She was paid 100 compensation as an apology. Miss B had brought her complaint to our service before esure issued their final response letter. After this was received she confirmed she wasn't happy with the 100 compensation she'd received. She wanted 250 compensation, the amount of her policy excess, for the inconvenience she'd experienced. Our investigator considered the case and recommended that esure increase the compensation they'd offered to 200. She said that when Miss B reported the incident to esure her car was collected the next day for repair. But there was a delay of five days before a courtesy car was provided. And the repairs to Miss B's car weren't completed until 4 December 2023. While waiting for her car to be repaired Miss B called esure on numerous occasions for updates and faced long waiting times. The calls had to be made during the working day, so Miss B was taking time away from her job, although her employer was understanding about this. Our investigator said that Miss B's policy said esure aimed to provide a courtesy car within two days. esure have said there was a shortage of cars available, but she was satisfied Miss B had been left without a car from 26 to 31 October 2023. And she said they'd been a delay of 26 days in authorising the repairs to Miss B's car. esure had accepted that this fell below their normal standards and had apologised for the delay. Our investigator was satisfied this delay could have been avoided. And that having to constantly chase esure for updates had caused Miss B unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She also said that esure's call notes confirmed Miss B had spent a lot of time on the phone to them and had been given incorrect information about who arranged a hire car for her. So our investigator didn't think the 100 compensation esure had paid Miss B was enough and recommended this be increased to 200. esure didn't accept our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In their final response letter esure accepted that the service they'd provided to Miss B fell below the level they'd expect. They apologised for this and arranged to pay her 100 compensation. So what I need to consider is whether the compensation they've paid her is sufficient. Miss B reported the damage to her car on 25 October 2023. It was collected for repair the following day, but she wasn't provided with a courtesy car until 31 October 2023. Miss B's policy says esure will aim to provide a courtesy car within two days. The timescale here was six. esure have told us that there was a problem with the availability of courtesy cars, and I don't think it was a long delay. But it wasn't the only delay. There was a much lengthier delay in esure arranging Miss B's repairs. Her car was collected for repair on 26 October 2023, but she wasn't able to collect it until 4 December 2023. And while she had a courtesy car for most of this period Miss B was having to chase esure for updates and to get the repairs authorised and contact the garage dealing with her repairs as well, which she shouldn't have had to. The evidence she's provided confirms the time she spent on the phone to esure. In their final response letter esure said there'd been an unacceptable delay in arranging Miss B's repairs. So I'm surprised that in their response to our investigator's opinion they said they were satisfied the repairs had been carried out within a reasonable time. The policy terms and conditions simply say that if an approved repairer is used they'll begin work as soon as possible. I don't think that the five weeks it took to complete Miss B's repairs was a reasonable timescale. There's always going to be some inconvenience when a car is damaged and a claim has to be made. But I'm satisfied in this case that Miss B suffered more than the expected level of inconvenience. She's told us that she had to make calls while she was at work and I accept that she found this difficult, even though she's said her employers were understanding. Our investigator referred in her opinion to Miss B being chased about payment for her hire car. esure responded to this saying that Miss B wouldn't have been involved in dealing with an invoice from the hire company. Miss B has provided evidence that she received messages from the car hire company chasing an outstanding payment. And that she raised this with esure and was initially told that they hadn't arranged a hire car for her. But as they say this shouldn't be considered as part of this complaint I'll leave it to them to respond to her about this. Putting things right I'm satisfied there were delays in esure arranging the repairs to Miss B's car and that how they dealt with her claim caused her distress and inconvenience. And taking everything into account I think the appropriate level of compensation is 200. So I require them to pay Miss B this sum, inclusive of the 100 previously paid to her. 