The complaint
Mr B has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. He isn't happy about the way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. For ease of reading any reference to Acromas includes its agents. 
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows; Mr B's car was hit by an unknown driver while he was parked in a supermarket carpark. He reported the matter to Acromas and asked it to look into the claim and provided details about CCTV evidence that may be relevant. Acromas looked into the claim and Mr B was held at fault as the other driver couldn't be traced. As Mr B wasn't happy about this he complained to Acromas. It acknowledged it could have done more and that it failed to get hold of the CCTV when it should have done from the supermarket. So it paid Mr B 200 by way of compensation for its failings and allowed his no claims discount as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr B remained unhappy, so he complained to this Service. Our investigator looked into things and upheld Mr B's complaint. Although he thought Acromas' offer of 200 compensation was fair he thought Acromas should mark the claim as non-fault. Mr B agreed with the investigator's position, but Acromas didn't so the matter has been passed to me for review. What I've provisionally decided and why I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I've formed a slightly different view to our investigator and I want to give both sides the opportunity to comment before finalising my decision. I agree that Acromas didn't act fairly, and it is agreed by all sides that it should have done more to get the CCTV from the supermarket. Its communication attempts were clearly inadequate which led to the CCTV being wiped given the delay and retention timescales. However, there isn't anything to say for sure that the CCTV evidence would have clearly shown the incident and the third party been identifiable. Given this, I think Acromas steps to try and put things right, after its mistake in not gaining the CCTV footage, seems fair. Acromas has allowed Mr B's no claims discount and has subsequently told this Service that it looked to mark the claim as non-fault. It has explained that it will need to place the costs of the claim on external systems which seems reasonable and in line with how it would have marked the details of the claim had they have been able to identify the third party and recover their costs. And it has offered to pay 200 by way of compensation for its errors and the impact on Mr B, which seems fair. While the matter has been with me for consideration I've asked Acromas to clarify how it has recorded the claim. And it has confirmed that it has marked the claim as non-fault on its systems, but it wasn't able to confirm how the matter was recorded externally at that stage. But as long as it records the claim accordingly, non-fault, then I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. I'll leave Acromas to confirm that it has marked the claim internally and externally as a non- fault claim in response to my provisional decision. Given all of this, I'm provisionally minded to say Acromas should pay Mr B 200 by way of compensation for its errors and to mark the claim as non-fault in addition to allowing Mr B's no claims discount. Replies Both sides responded. Acromas said there was an issue with its systems recording matters on the external CUE database last year and that when this claim is added to the database it will mirror what we have inhouse so will show as a non fault claim. ' And it said that it had already paid 200 by way of compensation in August last year. Mr B made a number of additional points in response. He said his no claims discount was actually protected; that there was a slim chance the CCTV would have been able to identify the other driver; that he didn't fully understand the meaning behind Non-Fault claim and how it affects my insurance record and premiums'. ; and that he should get more by way of compensation highlighting that he had to pay a 400 excess. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I remain of the view that Acromas should pay Mr B 200 (total) compensation for its errors. And that it should mark the claim as non-fault in addition to allowing Mr B's no claims discount. I don't propose to go over the detail again or rehearse the arguments although I will comment on some of the points raised. I'm pleased to see that Acromas has confirmed the claim will be marked non-fault and explained that this will eventually be marked correctly externally when its system allows. However, it is a shame that Acromas didn't clearly explain that it would mark the claim the same as if they had managed to defend Mr B (non-fault) in the first instance and been able to update CUE to that affect which has impacted the finalisation of this complaint. Turning to the points Mr B made. Had Acromas been able to identify the other driver and recover their costs through the third-party it would have marked the claim as non-fault as opposed to marking it as a fault claim if it couldn't recover its costs. So, by marking Mr B's claim as non-fault now this has placed him back in the same position as if Acromas hadn't made the error in recovering the CCTV. Ordinarily having a non-fault claim, as opposed to a fault claim, will mean that a customer is a lower level of risk when an insurer rates a policy which in turn affects premiums. And I know Mr B has questioned whether Acromas allowed his no claims discount as a gesture of goodwill as he felt it was protected in any event, but as the no claims discount has been allowed that is the main thing. I know Mr B would like more by way of compensation but there was always going to be a fair degree of stress and inconvenience in advancing a claim like this, especially when the other driver didn't leave their details, and I think a lot of the hassle stems from this. And Mr B would always have had to pay his excess following a claim, whether it was a fault or non- fault claim, and so his excess was always due. So, I think the 200 (total) compensation, which I understand Acromas has already paid, in acknowledgement of the errors made in addition to the other steps discussed here feels fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Acromas Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr B 200 (total) by way of compensation for its errors and to mark the claim as non- fault, on both internal and external databases, in addition to allowing Mr B's no claims discount. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2024. Colin Keegan Ombudsman