The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined to cover his loss in full following a theft, under his home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
A number of items were stolen from Mr S's shed, garage, and from under his carport. He made a claim to Ageas and provided details of the stolen items and associated costs. Ageas capped its settlement payment at 5,000 saying this was the policy limit for the contents of his outbuildings. However, Mr S says his policy provides a further 2,000 limit for property in the open air. He says this should include items taken from under his carport. In its final complaint response Ageas says it applied the policy limit correctly for theft of contents from an outbuilding or garage. It says the contents in the open limit Mr S is claiming for includes a turntable and springs for a horse drawn caravan. Ageas says accessories for a caravan are excluded from cover. Mr S didn't think he'd been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says although the policy doesn't define what a caravan is, a dictionary definition describes it as, a vehicle equipped for living in, typically towed by a car and used for holidays. Our investigator didn't think the stolen items were associated with a vehicle as described by this definition. He says Ageas should progress the claim subject to the remaining 2,000 policy limit. Ageas didn't agree. It says the definition our investigator used refers to a vehicle that is typically towed by a car. But it says this indicates there are other means of towing, such as by horse. It refers to another definition using the same dictionary that describes a caravan as a covered wagon, typically wooden and horse drawn. It says Mr S also described the stolen items as being from his horse drawn gypsy caravan. Ageas maintains that these items are excluded from cover. As an agreement couldn't be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in December 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr S's complaint. Here's what I said: provisional findings I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My intention is to not uphold this complaint. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I'll explain why I think my decision is fair. Mr S's policy terms say: Contents of outbuildings As standard, we will provide 5,000 of contents cover for outbuildings. And: Property in the open air Property in the open air or in a building that is open at the side or front (such as a carport), but is within the boundaries of your home The most we will pay for any one claim is 2,000. Also: What is not insured Any aircraft, boat, caravan, motor vehicle (including motorbikes and mechanically-powered vehicles) or trailer, or any accessories or contents in them or attached to them. Ageas offered Mr S 5,000 to settle his claim for theft from his outbuildings. As this is the maximum the policy provides. I've thought about Mr S's claim that he had several other items stolen from under his carport. Ageas doesn't dispute this. The policy provides a 2,000 limit for property in the open air. But Ageas says the items Mr S is claiming for are accessories for his horse drawn gypsy caravan. As above, caravans and any accessories relating to it are excluded from cover. Caravan isn't defined in the policy terms and conditions. Both our investigator and Ageas referred to dictionary definitions to clarify its meaning. I think this is a reasonable approach. I can see they used the same dictionary, although there were several definitions. The one our investigator referred to is, a vehicle equipped for living in, typically towed by a car and used for holidays. Whereas Ageas refers to the following: A type of covered wagon, typically wooden and horse-drawn, traditionally used for transport and living accommodation by itinerant people, esp. by Romani or Irish Traveller peoples, or by travelling showmen, circus troupes, etc. , and later (esp. in the early 20th cent. ) also by holidaymakers for touring holidays. In his claim correspondence Mr S refers to owning a horse drawn gypsy caravan. The stolen items he is claiming are associated with this. Namely a front axle, turntable, and springs. This isn't in dispute. I can see that Ageas's loss assessor initially declined these items from the claim as he thought they were a motor accessory. But for clarity, it was the caravan exclusion that Ageas ultimately relied on. The definition our investigator used describes a vehicle typically towed by a car. I agree with Ageas that this indicates other forms of towing are possible, such as by a horse. I also think a gypsy caravan is generally understood to be equipped for living in, and therefore again, fits with this definition. The definition highlighted by Ageas is an exact fit for the gypsy caravan Mr S owns. So, under either of these definitions I think the loss Mr S has claimed has reasonably been shown to relate to a caravan. It's clear the stolen items were part of or accessories for Mr S's gypsy caravan. His policy terms specifically exclude caravans and their accessories from cover. Based on this I don't think Ageas acted unfairly when relying on the policy exclusion it did to limit Mr S'ssettlement to 5,000. So, although I'm sorry he's suffered a loss, I can't reasonably ask Ageas to pay anymore. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me to consider before I reached a final decision. Mr S responded to say it wasn't a gypsy caravan or items associated with a gypsy caravan that he'd claimed for. He says he sent photos of components of a gypsy caravan to Ageas to show that it wasn't motorised. As these were similar to the items that had been stolen, which were from an Evesham Dray. He says the photos were provided to help Ageas understand what had been stolen, and that the exclusion for a motorised vehicle didn't apply. Mr S explains that the stolen items Ageas declined to cover are from an Evesham Dray. This is a flat horse drawn cart. He says it doesn't have living accommodation or other structure attached to it. This means it can't fall under the exclusion relating to a caravan. In his response Mr S maintains that his claim for the front axle with turntable and springs, as well as globe hangars, from his Evesham Dray should be paid by Ageas. I asked Ageas to comment on what Mr S had said. In its response Ageas acknowledged that the items it had declined to cover from Mr S's claim weren't actually part of a gypsy caravan. However, it says it cannot agree that the components of an Evesham Dray fall within the definition of a contents item. As such it maintains that there is no cover under Mr S's policy for this. I issued a second provisional decision in May 2024. Here's what I said: Second provisional decision I've reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so my intention is to not uphold Mr S's complaint. As my findings include different reasoning, I want to give both parties the opportunity to comment, or provide further information, before I issue a final decision. I accept that the items Mr S has claimed for are from an Evesham Dray. This isn't a caravan, gypsy or otherwise, and so the exclusion Ageas had relied on to decline this part of his claim doesn't apply here. I've thought about Ageas's comments that an Evesham Dray isn't covered under its policy definition for contents. The policy terms say that contents' means: Household goods, high-risk items, money and personal belongings you or your family own or are responsible for. Each of the content types are described in the definitions section of the policy booklet. Mr S's loss doesn't fall within the definition of money. Personal belongings are described as items worn or carried by you or your family. So, this doesn't apply either. High-risk items include jewellery and small items of value. I don't think this reasonably describes the items Mr S is claiming for. There is no definition for household goods. Ageas has provided a dictionary definition that describes this as, kitchenware and other utensils for use in the home. An online dictionary Ifound gives the definition, equipment, tools, machines, and other things used in a house. I don't think either of these definitions reasonably describe an Evesham Dray. Having considered this point carefully, I don't think Mr S's policy covers the stolen items that originated from the Evesham Dray. His policy does provide cover up to a limit of 2,000 for property in the open air. But the definitions discussed here, still apply to this part of Mr S's cover. I don't think the turntable, springs, and globe hangers from an Evesham Dray reasonably fall under the definition of contents. Because of this I don't think Ageas treated Mr S unfairly when declining this part of his claim. So, I can't reasonably ask it to pay anymore. I said I was intending to not uphold Mr S's complaint. I asked both parties to send me any further comments or information they wanted me to consider before I reached a final decision. Neither party responded with any further comments or information. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.