The complaint
Miss G and Mr S complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with their contents insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss G and her son, Mr S, held a buildings and contents insurance policy with Lloyds. When they took out the policy, they added specified item cover for two expensive watches. Miss G says that one of the watches was stolen off her wrist while she was out using public transport. So she made a claim to Lloyds for the loss. Lloyds sent an agent to Miss G's home to interview her about the circumstances of her claim. Following this, Lloyds took the decision to decline the claim. It thought the watch didn't belong to Miss G and instead belonged to Mr S. And it thought Mr S didn't live at the insured address, so it said there was no cover for his items. Lloyds also removed Mr S from the policy because it said he wasn't entitled to be named on it in the first place. Lloyds refunded to Miss G the additional premiums paid to cover Mr S and his specified items. Miss G didn't think this was fair, so she complained to Lloyds. She said the stolen watch was partly hers and she said the insured address was Mr S's main residence. She also said she'd been advised on the phone that she should take out the policy this way and add the watches. Lloyds looked into the complaint but didn't change its stance. It also said it had searched its systems and couldn't find any record of a call with Miss G around the time of the sale and noted that she'd purchased the policy online. Unhappy with this, Miss G and Mr S referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Having reviewed the complaint, I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In it I said: I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what I've seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss G and Mr S's complaint. I'll explain why. Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly, and they shouldn't unreasonably decline them. So, I've considered whether Lloyds has acted fairly when it declined Miss G and Mr S's claim, and when it took the decision to remove Mr S from the policy. I have to consider the reasons Lloyds gave for taking the actions that it did. In this case, Lloyds has said it reached its decision because it believes Mr S is the rightful owner of the stolen watch, that he doesn't live at the insured address, and that he shouldn't have been on the policy at all. So, I've focused my decision on whether this was fair and reasonable. Our investigator thought the relevant law in this case was the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). However, Lloyds did not rely on this to decline Miss G and Mr S's claim or to remove Mr S from the policy. So, I've not considered the complaint in the light of CIDRA. Instead, I've considered whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in their handling of the claim. I've first considered who owned the stolen watch. Lloyds has said Mr S is the rightful owner. Miss G has suggested she is the rightful owner, or at least that her and Mr S owned it together. In any event, the receipt and documentation are in Mr S's name. Miss G confirmed the watch was technically his in her signed statement of loss in November 2022. And even if Miss G paid for some or all of it, I'm persuaded that it was gifted to Mr S which made Mr S the rightful owner. So I think it was fair for Lloyds to treat him as such. I've also considered whether Mr S lived at the insured address. Lloyds has said Mr S doesn't normally live there. Miss G has said it's his main residence. I think a reasonable definition of normally' here would mean living at the insured address the majority of the time. Lloyds' investigator reported that Miss G said Mr S stays there less than one night a week. And I've placed the most weight on Miss G's signed statement where she said Mr S lives at the property more often than not when he's not abroad. However, the evidence indicates Mr S spends a reasonable amount of time abroad, travelling for work, or staying elsewhere. So I've taken this to mean he doesn't stay at the insured address often, and not the majority of the year. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to say Mr S doesn't normally live there. But the crux of this complaint and where I think Lloyds have reached the wrong outcome is whether Mr S should've been a policyholder at all. I know Miss G has said she was advised to take out the policy in the way that she did. Lloyds has said there weren't any calls from her mobile number or any audit trails to suggest a conversation took place. And I haven't seen persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise. But I have reviewed the sales journey to see whether it was made clear that Mr S's particular living arrangements would cause Lloyds to take the view that he shouldn't have been a policyholder at all and that he couldn't claim for any of his contents kept there. I think this is significant, so I'd expect to see that it was made appropriately clear. Lloyds has provided screenshots from the online sales journey. From what I can see, only one section of this journey addressed the question of living arrangements. It said: And a few more things about you and your home It's your main home. If shared, it's with your family only. If used for business, this is only computer work, paperwork and phone calls by you and your family. It won't be left for longer than 60 days in a row with no one living there. It doesn't have any building work taking place, or scheduled, costing more than 75,000. Are all these statements true? Yes No This was presented before any personal details had to be input by the user and before the option to add additional policyholders. Because Miss G was the main policyholder, I think it would be fair to say that she would have been the one revieing and responding to these statements. So I've considered them in that light. I've seen nothing to suggest the property was anything other than Miss G's main home. And I think that, either, she would have considered her home shared with her family only on the basis that Mr S was her son who, in her words, lives with her more often than not when he is not [abroad for work]. Or, that she would have regarded Mr S as not living there the majority of the time and so she wouldn't have considered her home shared at all. In either case, I think it was reasonable for her to have answered yes' and proceeded to add Mr S as a policyholder. I also can't see there were any further questions or warnings about joint policyholders' living arrangements. So, I think in Miss G and Mr S's particular circumstances, and considering the sales journey, that it was reasonable for Mr S to be added to the policy. The policy covered contents' which it defined as: Household goods, personal belongings and valuables, and home office equipment. These must be owned by you, your family or any domestic staff that live with you. Regardless of the definition of family' requiring family members to normally live at the insured address, the policy first covers items owned by you', which the policy defines as: The policyholder(s) named on the policy schedule. I've seen a copy of the policy schedule and Miss G and Mr S are both named as policyholders. So I'm satisfied that Mr S's contents were covered by the policy, including his stolen watch as a specified item. The watch also included away from home' cover as shown on the policy schedule, which protected it against theft, loss or accidental damage while it was temporarily away from the insured address. Lloyds has suggested that Mr S can't claim under this section because the watch wasn't temporarily away from his home because he doesn't live there. The terms of this section say: This is optional cover for your contents when temporarily away from your home, anywhere in the world. When we say temporarily we mean for a short time. For example, on a day trip, or a holiday. It does not mean when kept away from your home most of the time. For example, in your holiday home, your caravan or in storage. These terms include certain words (in bold) that are defined in the policy. The relevant ones are home' which is defined as: The address we've agreed to insure as shown on your policy schedule. This includes: Your house And your' which is defined as: Owned by you or your family, or for which you or your family are legally responsible. While I appreciate Lloyds' argument, I don't think it produces a fair outcome. Mr S and his watch met the definition of your contents' because he was a policyholder and the watch was owned by him. And it was the watch that was temporarily away from the home which is defined as the risk address named on the schedule. So I don't think it would be fair for Lloyds to decline the claim on this ground. Lloyds has also said that Mr S doesn't have a financial interest in the property or its contents, but I don't think that's right. Mr S has, at the least, expensive items kept at the property, for which he and Miss G specified and paid premiums to cover. And I'm persuaded that Mr S stays at the property some of the time. So I think he does have an insurable interest there. Taking everything together, I think it was reasonable for Mr S to be added a policyholder, which in turn gave rise to cover for his contents kept there including the watch. And for the reasons above I think it is fair and reasonable for the circumstances of the loss to fall within the away from home' section of cover. So I don't think Lloyds acted fairly by removing Mr S from cover and declining the claim. To put things right, I'm intending to tell Lloyds to retroactively restore Mr S and his specified items to the policy and reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Lloyds should also remove any record of the removal of Mr S from cover from internal or external databases, if applicable. If the claim is paid, I think it would be fair for Lloyds to deduct from the settlement the premiums that it has refunded to Miss G. I set out what I intended to tell Lloyds to do to put things right and asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider. Responses Miss G responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. She also provided some comments and extra detail around what happened. She added that she hasn't taken out further insurance cover. Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and agreed to my proposed redress. It also said it's reviewing its sales journey to clarify what adding an additional policyholder really means. Lloyds also agreed to re-add Mr S's specified items, but not to re-add the stolen watch as this was no longer in Mr S's and Miss G's possession. Lloyds said if the claim is accepted, and the watch replaced or another one purchased, Miss G and Mr S could add this to the policy if they wish. Finally, Lloyds said that Mr S's removal from the policy wasn't recorded on any databases. I now think it's appropriate to issue my final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Because the parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached so I uphold this complaint. I'm grateful to Miss G for her comments. I've noted them. I won't respond to them here and I want to reassure her this isn't intended as a discourtesy. Only that they don't change what I think is the right outcome. Even so, I'm sorry to hear that Miss G hasn't been able to take out further insurance cover. Lloyds has confirmed it didn't record the removal of Mr S on any databases and it has agreed to retroactively restore him to the policy. So Miss G and Mr S would be able to take this into account when purchasing cover in future. In terms of Lloyds' response, I think it's reasonable that it doesn't re-add the stolen watch to the policy given it's no longer in Miss G and Mr S's possession. Lloyds has said it would be unfair to charge an additional premium for this and I agree. But it still needs to re-add the other specified items, which it has agreed to. Putting things right To resolve this complaint, Lloyds must: Retroactively restore Mr S and his specified items to the policy. Remove any record of the removal of Mr S from cover from internal and external databases, if applicable. Reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. And if the claim is paid, deduct from the settlement the premiums it refunded to Miss G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to settle Miss G and Mr S's complaint as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Miss G and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.