The complaint
Mr D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) mishandled a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2021. For the year from 10 September 2022, Mr D had the car insured on a policy with Ageas. Unfortunately, in early May 2023, Mr D reported that a car had hit the rear of his car, and while he was reversing it to a layby, his car came into contact with another car. Ageas said that Mr D was responsible for the contact with the second car. Mr D complained to Ageas about that. By a final response dated mid-May 2023, Ageas turned down that complaint. Mr D brought his complaint to us in early November 2023. He added that in August 2023 - Ageas had said it would renew the policy from 10 September 2023 but then refused him insurance, causing his premium to double with another company. Ageas responded to our request for information about the claim and about the non-renewal of the policy. Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didn't think that Ageas had acted unfairly. Mr D disagreed with the investigator's opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that: Ageas caused him unnecessary stress and mental anguish. Ageas should not assign culpability to him without a full and fair investigation. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where an insurer makes an outlay on a claim (for example the cost of repairs), it's common practice for that insurer to treat that claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until that insurer recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third party. I've noted that Mr D's premium from September 2022 was about 400.00. That was with nine years' no-claims discount (NCD). I've also noted that the NCD was protected so that it wouldn't be lost as a result of a single claim in the policy year. Nevertheless, the policy was for one year and I don't consider that Ageas was obliged to renew it for a further year. Like any insurer, Ageas was entitled to have underwriting criteria about what risks it was prepared to insure. Different insurers assess risk differently at different times. The Ageas policy terms included the following: In dealing with any claim under the terms of the policy, your insurer may: Carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who will act for you in any legal action I consider that this means that, on a question of liability involving a third party, Ageas's view would prevail over Mr D's view. I don't regard that term as unfair. Most motor policies include such a term. Nevertheless I will consider whether Ageas treated Mr D fairly. The events in early May 2023 and the need to claim against the policy were, in my view, bound to cause Mr D some upset and inconvenience. I'm satisfied that Ageas took into account Mr D's sketch and his statement of the circumstances. Mr D said the first car damaged the rear of his car and the second car caused damage to an offside wheel arch of his car. Mr D said that, at the time of the contact with the second car, he'd been reversing. So Ageas took the view that Mr D was responsible for the contact with the second car. I accept that Mr D expected a fuller investigation. However, in the context of a minor collision, I'm satisfied that Ageas took proportionate steps to weigh up the likely outcome if the matter went to court. Ageas decided not to incur the risk and costs of trying to recover its outlay from the driver of the second car. I don't consider that Ageas' decision was unreasonable or treated Mr D unfairly. Unfortunately for Mr D, he had been involved in a non-fault claim immediately followed by a fault claim. I'm satisfied that in line with its criteria - Ageas wouldn't offer to insure any driver in such circumstances. So I don't consider that Ageas treated Mr D unfairly by deciding not to renew the policy. By an email dated mid-August 2023, Ageas told Mr D that it wouldn't renew the policy, which would lapse on 10 September 2023. By a letter dated the same day, Ageas said the following: Your policy will end on 10 Sep 2023 and you will no longer be covered if you need to make a claim. If you've changed your mind and would still like to be insured with us, it's not too late. Please give us a call on 0345 125 8826 and we'll get you set back up straight away. You can also ask us for a price for your Car insurance any time in the future just visit ageas.co.uk for a quote or call us on the number above and see what we can do. That incorrectly suggested that Mr D had decided that he no longer wanted to be insured with Ageas, and that he could change his mind. However, Mr D still had three or four weeks to clarify that Ageas wasn't offering him cover, and to get replacement cover from 10 September 2023. I accept Mr D's statement that the replacement cover was more expensive than the premium of about 400.00 for the previous year. However I don't accept that Ageas had caused this by refusing him cover. Rather, I find it more likely that the claims (and particularly the faut claim) caused other insurers to quote more than would otherwise have been the case. I don't underestimate the impact of all this on Mr D. However, I haven't found that Ageas treated him unfairly. So I don't find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to pay compensation or to do any more in response to this complaint. 