The complaint
Mr H complains that MRDP Re Digital Partners Ltd (MRDP) provided him with an insurance policy and subsequently cancelled it, despite taking payment, which caused significant inconvenience and distress. MRDP is an insurance intermediary and is ultimately responsible for ensuring the home insurance policy complies with FCA regulations. So I'll refer to MRDP throughout my decision although any reference to MRDP includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr H purchased a home insurance policy with MRDP, through a price comparison website. Mr H says when he took out the policy he was asked a question about how many bathrooms he has in his property. He has six bathrooms so he answered the question 5 plus bathrooms', because there was no option above five. When Mr H received the policy documents he reviewed everything and emailed MRDP on the same day to raise some issues with the policy wording, including the 5 bathrooms' because he had six. Mr H was told the matter was being referred. Mr H didn't hear anything and payments were taken from his bank and so he thought there were no issues. Mr H says a month after the policy started he received an email from MRDP asking for confirmation of how many bathrooms his property had. Mr H confirmed there were six. He was subsequently told MRDP didn't offer cover to properties with six bathrooms and so his policy would need to be cancelled. Mr H says he felt he was being bullied into cancelling his property. Mr H says days after all this happened the policy was still available online to purchase which evidences the insurer was more concerned with getting policies sold. Because his insurance was cancelled Mr H says his insurance premiums would likely increase since he has to declare it when taking out new policies. Mr H wasn't satisfied with the service he received so he complained. MRDP apologised for the service Mr H received. It reinstated the policy from when Mr H took out cover so he didn't have a gap in insurance, it refunded Mr H the cost of the year's policy plus 8% as a gesture of goodwill and confirmed Mr H wouldn't have to declare his insurance had been cancelled when taking out insurance. Mr H wasn't happy with the response from MRDP so his complaint was referred to this service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She acknowledged MRDP made an error in cancelling Mr H's policy but she thought the steps it took to put things right were appropriate and in line with what this service would recommend. And so she didn't recommend that MRDP needed to do anything further to resolve Mr H's complaint. Mr H didn't agree. He said MRDP don't insure six bathrooms which is why his policy was cancelled. He said subsequent emails sent from MRDP were written with the ombudsman service in mind and he remained dissatisfied. And so Mr H's complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I'm not upholding it. I recognise my decision will be unwelcome news for Mr H, and I'm sorry about that. I'll explain my reasons, focusing on the key points and evidence I consider material to my decision. This service isn't the regulator. We don't have powers to compel a business to change its business practices, influence its commercial decision making, or recommend charges and fines. So I've only looked at what happened to Mr H here and not the wider general public. I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I don't doubt the frustration and upset he suffered as a result of this matter, especially where he'd taken out the policy in good faith and alerted MRDP to the issues with his policy as soon as he became aware of them. My role here is, as far as possible, to put the customer back in the position he would have been in, but for any errors. MRDP cancelled Mr H's policy. Had it not done so his cover would have continued uninterrupted. This complaint arises from a miscommunication between the various parties; the insurer, the administrator, and the intermediary. I can see Mr H has had a frustrating experience. He has been provided with different explanations as to why his policy was cancelled and has been caused trouble and upset in trying to get an answer from MRDP. I have listened to the call provided to me and reviewed the correspondence he was sent. He was told various things such as; The policy doesn't cover properties with six or more bathrooms The policy does cover properties with six bathrooms The underwriter didn't have the appetite for the risk There was an issue with the price comparison website The policy had to be cancelled The policy was cancelled mistakenly So I can understand why Mr H feels the way he does. He says he chose to take out insurance with that provider as they're a brand known for the service they provide and so he would have felt let down by what he experienced. MRDP accept the failings in the service it provided. It says Mr H was incorrectly advised the underwriter doesn't provide cover for properties with six or more bathrooms. It says a policy could have been provided to Mr H. Indeed it offered to reinstate Mr H's policy but he'd already made alternative arrangements. MRDP also accept it took too long for Mr H to get an answer regarding his cover when he initially contacted it in October 2023. It apologised for the errors made and offered a resolution. Mr H feels MRDP has gotten away' with how it has treated him. But my role isn't to punish a business when it makes a mistake. Conclusion When a business makes a mistake, as MRDP accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumer's position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. Ultimately Mr H had a home insurance policy which was cancelled, leaving him in a position where he had to obtain new insurance and potentially declare the gap in insurance and policy cancellation to new insurers. I think MRDP's error caused Mr H stress and upset when he waited for so long for a response, and when that response came it wasn't correct. So he wasn't able to ascertain what had happened and resolve it quickly and easily. MRDP refunded the premiums Mr H paid for the policy and reinstated it from when he incepted the policy to when it was cancelled so he had no gap in insurance cover; since he'd already taken out an alternative policy. And I think this is fair. Our investigator said the 822. 46 offered by MRDP reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. The ombudsman service's approach to awards for compensation can be found on our website. Essentially our role is not to punish the business. Its clear to me that Mr H has gone to a lot of trouble contacting MRDP and this service in order to resolve his concerns and the whole matter has caused him a significant level of stress. And so to reflect this, and the inconvenience caused, I think compensation in the amount of 822. 46 is fair and reasonable and is broadly in line with the awards which we make for trouble and upset as set out on our website. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr H who has provided compelling testimony about the effect of the complaint on his life. However, MRDP accept the mistakes made and taken steps to resolve the matter for Mr H, and that is what I would expect it to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I'm not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.