The complaint
B has complained that Vitality Life Limited misled Mr P, its director, as to the terms of the policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I won't repeat it again here. In summary Mr P made a claim on the policy which commence in December 2022. Vitality declined the claim. It said Mr P hadn't met the definition for coronary angioplasty under his policy version. Mr P complained on behalf of B as he said he purchased the policy on the basis of the documentation that he was sent. Vitality apologised and offered 500 in compensation. Mr P referred the complaint to our service. The investigator didn't recommend that it be upheld. Mr P appealed. He pointed out that the error hadn't been picked up until after he submitted his claim. By this time Mr P said he had no option but to stay with Vitality as his heart condition would have been excluded with other providers, leaving him with less cover. He felt that putting him in the position that he would have been in meant that Vitality should pay the claim. Mr P accepted that the policy was sold by a broker but felt that the broker was dependent on the documentation provided to him by Vitality. I issued a provisional decision in April 2024. I said as follows: I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm aware I've summarised the background to this complaint and some sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I've focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If there's something I haven't mentioned, it isn't because I've ignored it. I've fully reviewed the file and considered all the representations made by Mr P, including those made after our investigator's assessment. For the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator: It is not disputed that Mr P's condition didn't meet the definition for Coronary Angioplasty in the version of the policy B purchased, so the claim wasn't payable. I don't find that Vitality unreasonably rejected the claim. This led Mr P to feel that the policy was mis-sold, as it offered him limited cover. Vitality referred Mr P to his financial adviser, who sold the policy, but Mr P felt that Vitality was to blame as it supplied the documents, including the sales aid, that the adviser relied on. Vitality didn't sell the policy to Mr P, so I've looked carefully at how Vitality ensures that advisers selling its policies have access to all documentation. Vitality says that the financial adviser would have been supported by an account manager who would be available to answer any questions and provide documentation if necessary. It has shown that there was both an account manager and franchise director assigned to Mr P's adviser. In addition, Vitality points out that its website has an adviser zone providing the latest versions of Plan Provisions as well as other sales aids. It is reasonable to say that the adviser had access to this because he provided Mr P with a sales aid. In the circumstances I don't find that there was any failing on the part of Vitality with regard to documentation supplied to the independent financial adviser. Ultimately the policy wasn't sold by Vitality. It is unfortunate that the policy sold by Mr P's adviser didn't cover his claim, whilst there was cover available that would have. But I don't find that Vitality is responsible for this. After cover commences, Vitality would usually send a policy document to the new member. However it realised that it didn't do so in Mr P's case and offered compensation of 500 for this error. I find this was fair. Should Mr P wish to accept this offer he will need to contact Vitality directly. For the reasons I gave I wasn't minded to uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further comment or evidence. Vitality made no further comments. B didn't accept my provisional findings. In summary, Mr P on behalf of B said: He thought that the complaint had been mis-understood. He reiterated that the broker sold the policy using the documents provided by Vitality. He felt that the policy provider had a duty of care for their policies regardless of who sold them. The broker had no reason to question the documents as they were clear in what was covered. As a direct result of not receiving the policy from Vitality, Mr P wasn't given the opportunity to assess whether the policy he was sold met his needs. His experience of the ombudsman was that it was biased towards the organisation rather than the people it was in place to protect. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and having considered the representations that B now makes, I'm not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. Firstly I should say that I do understand the points that Mr P makes and have considered the examples that he has provided. But it remains the case that the policy was sold by an independent financial adviser, not Vitality. Vitality did provide documentation to the adviser and support was available. I don't agree that Vitality is anyway responsible for the sale of the policies. It is responsible for the policy documentation but the documentation provided to Mr P by the broker was a sales aid and not the policy document. Nevertheless the sales aid does provide two lists illness and conditions covered by the Serious Illness Cover, and additional conditions only covered by the Serious Illness Cover Plus. It is clear that Mr P's condition wasn't covered by the Serious Illness Cover he had been sold, so I don't find Vitality was at fault here. I appreciate that it would have been helpful if B had been sent a policy document, but I don't find that if he had received the document he would have opted to take out different or enhanced cover. I'm satisfied that the offer of compensation made of 500 is fair in the circumstances. Finally I should say that this Service is impartial I'm sorry that Mr P feels this isn't the case. We were set up by Parliament to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimum formality by an independent person, an alternative dispute resolution scheme. It isn't our function to protect anyone; rather to resolve disputes fairly and independently. This does mean that often one party will not receive the outcome they were hoping for, although they will always be told why. I'm sorry we weren't able to give B the answer it was seeking on this occasion. 