The complaint
Mr I and Ms F complain about delays caused by esure Insurance Limited (esure) during its handling of their subsidence claim. Any reference to esure in this final decision includes its respective agents unless specified otherwise. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so I'll summarise what I've found to be the key points. Mr I and Ms F made a subsidence claim on their esure home insurance policy. The claim had been ongoing since 2018. In January 2023, Mr I and Ms F raised some snagging issues with the reinstatement works carried out by esure under the claim. They asked for these matters to be rectified urgently as they were looking to sell their property and couldn't proceed until the works were completed to a suitable standard. In April 2023 Mr I and Ms F complained to esure about its lack of response to the issues raised and its failure to rectify the snagging works causing further delays, distress and upset. esure apologised for the delays and upheld their complaint. It said its contractors would be in touch to ensure the snagging issues were resolved swiftly. And it offered 250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Unhappy with this Mr I and Ms F complained to this Service. They said that esure had been mishandling their claim for several years which resulted in them incurring unnecessary expenses as well as being unable to renovate or sell their property. They said esure's actions had caused significant stress and prevented them from being able to move on with their lives. Our Investigator could only consider part of Mr I and Ms F's complaint as not all of it had been brought to this Service in time under the rules we must follow. For the time period she could consider, she found that esure had caused avoidable delays of around seven months and that this had a significant impact on Mr I and Ms F. Our Investigator didn't think 250 was enough to recognise this and said esure should therefore increase its offer of compensation to a total of 650 as well as rectifying the snagging issues in a timely manner. Neither party agreed to the Investigators findings. esure maintained that its original offer of compensation was fair, and Mr I and Ms F said the compensation didn't go far enough to put things right. The case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. To be clear, for the reasons already explained to Mr I and Ms F, this final decision only considers events that took place after the date of the esure final response letter (FRL) issued to Mr I and Ms F in June 2022 up until the date of the FRL issued to them in July 2023. When considering what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I need to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Insurers are under a duty to: handle claims promptly and fairly provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress not unreasonably reject a claim; and settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. It's not in dispute in this case that there have been delays during the handling of Mr I and Ms F's claim. The nature of insurance claims, especially ones involving subsidence, often means that some delay and inconvenience is somewhat expected. So, when considering how timely an insurer has handled a claim, our general approach is to only look to compensate for any avoidable delays. From the information I've seen and for the period I can consider in this case, it seems there was a gap of several months between ground stablisation works being completed under the claim and the reinstatement works beginning. And I've not seen a reasonable explanation from esure for this gap. During this time, it seems Mr I and Ms F had to repeatedly chase esure for updates to try and get things moving with very little to no response which is a poor service. And when the works were finally completed in January 2023, they weren't to a suitable standard. Mr I and Ms F then experienced further delays and poor communication from esure resulting in them raising a complaint in April 2023 when the snagging works were still outstanding a further three months after they raised this to esure, again with no suitable explanation. And this went on until esure issued its FRL in June 2023. esure has said the delays were as a result of issues with its appointed supplier and I can see it was regularly chasing its supplier for updates. But esure is ultimately responsible for its suppliers' actions in this case and from what I've seen, I'm persuaded there were several months of avoidable delays during the period I can consider in this case. With all that in mind, I'm satisfied that esure failed to handle Mr I and Ms F's claim as promptly and fairly as it should have. And its communication on the claim progress was often poor. I don't think 250 goes far enough to recognise the impact of esure's avoidable delays in this case and I agree with our Investigator that the compensation should be increased to a total of 650. I understand Mr I and Ms F don't think this amount is enough to recognise the full extent of the delays since the claim started. But for the reasons already explained to them, I can only consider a limited time period of their complaint, meaning a large portion of the delays that they say caused them significant distress and prevented them from selling/renovating their home happened during a period I cannot consider. For the period I can consider, I'm satisfied that Mr I and Ms F experienced considerable distress and upset over a period of several months that required a lot of extra effort from them to sort out. And while I can't know if or when their home would have sold had they been able to put it on the market sooner, I don't doubt the upset and frustration they say they felt given the delay in opportunity regarding this. With all that in mind, I'm satisfied that a total of 650 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in this case. esure must now pay this amount to Mr I and Ms F and rectify the outstanding snagging issues in a timely manner if it hasn't done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that esure Insurance Limited must pay Mr I and Ms F a total of 650* compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in this case. It should also rectify the outstanding snagging issues in a timely manner if it hasn't done so already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr I and Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2024. * esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr I and Ms F accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. Rosie Osuji Ombudsman