The complaint
Mr H & Mrs Y complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) mishandled a claim on a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the insurance was a car, first registered in 2016. Mr H acquired the car in about 2019. For the year from late December 2021, he had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with RSA. He was the policyholder. The policy covered him and his wife Mrs Y. The policy included cover for Loss & theft of keys. Mr H renewed the policy for the year from late December 2022. In September 2023, Mr H made a claim to RSA for a lost key. By early October 2023, he told RSA that he didn't want to pursue the claim. In early December 2023, Mr H complained, through us, to RSA that it should remove its record of the claim, which was causing other providers to quote more than he could afford for the year from late December 2023. The RSA policy expired, and RSA didn't renew it. By a final response dated late January 2024, RSA declined to change its record. It turned down the complaint. Mr H asked us to investigate. Mrs Y joined in the complaint. Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that RSA had recorded the claim as closed (withdrawn). He thought that RSA had acted reasonably in how they had recorded the lost keys claim to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE). Mr H and Mrs Y disagreed with the investigator's opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that: This issue will cause him to pay more for the premium. He caused zero loses to the insurance company. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The cost of the RSA policy for the year from December 2021 had been nearly 800. 00, according to the December 2022 renewal letter. The cost for the year from December 2022 was about 680. 00. That was with at least nine years' no claims bonus (NCB). I accept that RSA didn't pay any money out on the claim before Mr H withdrew it. In his complaint form, Mr H told us that RSA said that it would consider it as incident which will not affect your insurance at all. I haven't had access to any call recording. Nevertheless, I find it more likely that RSA told Mr H that the withdrawn claim wouldn't affect his NCB. I find it less likely that RSA told Mr H that the withdrawn claim wouldn't affect his insurance at all. Even if RSA had said something to that effect, I wouldn't find it fair to direct RSA to remove the record of the claim. That's because Mr H had made a claim and then withdrawn it. I've seen the CUE entry showing the status of the claim as withdrawn and the payment as 0. I find that fair. I've seen a letter from RSA to Mr H dated late November 2023. It recorded the September 2023 claim not pursued but said he had 12 years' NCB. So the claim hadn't affected his NCB. I have no reason to doubt Mr H's statement that other insurers quoted much higher premiums for the year from December 2023. However, Mr H hasn't shown the extent to which that was driven by the withdrawn claim, or by other factors. Overall, I don't find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to change its record of the claim or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. I don't direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr H and Mrs Y to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2024. Christopher Gilbert Ombudsman