The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled a claim under Mr W's Car Insurance policy. Mr and Mrs W are represented by Mr K. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I will not repeat it in detail. In summary, Mr and Mrs W are very unhappy about the way Admiral's approved repairer repaired Mr W's car after he made a claim for damage to it after an accident. Admiral issued three final responses on Mr and Mrs W's complaint. It paid for the car to be properly repaired and in respect of a further issue with the battery. It has also paid a total of 325 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs W experienced under various complaint references. Mr K asked us to consider Mr and Mrs W's complaint. One of our investigators did this. But she said she couldn't consider issues addressed in Admiral's final response letter of 27 June 2022 due to the time limits set out in our rules. She did however consider points raised after this. She suggested a further 250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience and that Admiral should urgently review Mr and Mrs W's costs resulting from the claim and their complaints. Mr and Mrs W didn't agree with the investigator's view. And they also thought she should have considered further issues they raised after Admiral's final response of 27 June 2022. They said that they weren't able to raise all the issues with the repairs to Mr W's car until after this final response, which led to them obtaining an independent report on the standard of repairs to the car. Mr K also pointed out that Admiral had had more than enough time to consider Mr and Mrs W's claim for costs and that it was for the Financial Ombudsman to decide what costs Admiral should cover. I issued a provisional decision on 1 May 2024 in which I set out what I'd provisionally decided and why as follows: I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree with Mr K that I can consider all the points he raised on Mr and Mrs W's behalf when he referred their complaint to us. This is because they all flow from the complaint Mr and Mrs W made after they obtained the independent assessor's report on the repairs to their car. And Admiral issued two further final responses after this and Mr K asked us to consider Mr and Mrs W's complaint within six months of these. I also agree I can consider Mr and Mrs W's complaint about the costs they have said they incurred, as the issue was raised with Admiral before Mr K asked us to consider their complaint. And Admiral has had more than enough time to address it and more than the eight weeks it is allowed under the rules to do so. I am not going to go into any detail on the poor service provided by Admiral's approved repaired (AR) and the very poor standard of the repairs to their car. This is because it is not in dispute that the AR provided a very poor level of service and that the repairs they carried out were poor. And based on the independent assessor's report, I share Mr K's concerns about the repairs and the fact Mr and Mrs W's car was most likely returned to them in an unsafe condition. However, Admiral has paid for the car to be put right and also for the further issue with the battery that resulted from the length of time it took for the car to be properly repaired. So I do not consider it needs to pay anything further in respect of Mr W's car. Having said all this, I do not consider Admiral has paid anywhere near enough to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of the poor service they received from the AR, the impact of the poor repairs and the poor service they received from Admiral. I consider this warrants a total compensation payment of 1,000. Admiral has only paid 325 so far. This means I think it needs to pay Mr and Mrs W a further 675 in compensation for distress and inconvenience as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint. I have also considered the list of costs Mr and Mrs W have provided. I do not consider it appropriate for me to award anything for what they have described as time cost'. As I see this as general distress and inconvenience and it is covered by the 1,000 I have said is fair and reasonable for this. And I do not consider it appropriate for me to award anything for emails and telephone calls. The time spent on emails and telephone calls was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs W, but this is also reflected in the amount I have suggested in compensation for distress and inconvenience. I've not seen any evidence that the phone calls themselves actually cost anything and it may be that they were just part of Mr and Mrs W's free minutes on their mobile or home phone contracts. But if there were actual costs and Mr and Mrs W provide evidence of these I will consider them. I presume the amounts for trips taken as a result of Mr and Mrs W not having a hire car and Mrs W having to leave Mr W with her car were by public transport. But it does not seem they reflect the saving on fuel cost as a result of Mrs W not using a car. So I think this saving needs to be reflected. The amount claimed is 36 for three trips, but I am not sure on the mileage that Mrs W would have done if she had a car. In the circumstances I think 25 to cover these three trips is fair. I agree Admiral should cover the cost of the independent assessor's report at 219. 80, as this report proved that the repairs to Mr W's car weren't carried out properly and led to Admiral paying for the car to be properly repaired. The jump leads must have been purchased due to the battery issue, which was due to the delay in Mr W's car being repaired properly, so I agree Admiral should cover this cost (20). I am not sure what the cost of the control box refers to (cost 324. 28). But if this is part of the issue with the battery or the delay in Mr W's car being properly repaired or the poor repair, then I agree Admiral should also cover this cost. It would however be helpful if Mr and Mrs W or Mr K could clarify what this cost relates to. There are several mileage amounts for trips that I agree were only necessary due to the problems with the repairs to Mr W's car. However, the amounts should reflect the fuel cost. But they do not seem to do so. The total mileage of the trips was 223 and I doubt this would have cost more than 20 in fuel. So I am allowing 20 for mileage costs. I do not think anything should be awarded for the cost of insurance, car tax or the finance on Mr W's car, as these are costs that would have been incurred even if the repairs to his car had been carried out properly. The fact that they were paid but Mr W couldn't use the car was distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs W, but this is reflected in the amount I have said is appropriate for distress and inconvenience. I do not consider it is appropriate for me to make Admiral cover Mr K's fee. I do not doubt Mr K has been a great help to Mr and Mrs W in this matter. However, they have always had the option to bring their complaint to us in their own right and I do not believe the outcome would have been any different without Mr K's involvement. In summary as things stand in terms of costs, I consider Admiral needs to pay a total of 609. 08. I also consider Admiral needs to pay interest on these costs to compensate Mr and Mrs W for being without these funds from the date each of these costs were incurred, as set out on the spreadsheet provided by them. The 609. 08 is made up as follows: Trips on public transport by Mrs W 25; the independent assessor's fee 219. 80; jump leads 20; control box 324. 28 (subject to clarification on what this is for); and mileage 20. My provisional decision For the reasons set out above, I've provisionally decided to uphold Mr and Mrs W's complaint and make Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited pay them the following amounts: 675 as further compensation for distress and inconvenience. 609. 08 to cover costs Mr and Mrs W incurred as a result of the poor repairs to Mr W's car and the poor service they received, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date each of the costs making up this amount were incurred to the date of payment. I gave both parties until 15 May 2024 to provide further comments and evidence. Admiral responded to say that it understood and accepted the additional compensation I intended to award. It also explained that it made a payment of 500 to cover the allowance the dealer who bought Mr W's car made for replacing the control box and the issues associated with the battery. In view of this, it thinks it should only have to pay a further 284. 80 for additional costs. I put this to Ms W and Mr K. Mrs W then confirmed this issue did relate to the electrical problems with the car due to it being left idle for so long and the battery going flat. Mr K suggested that Admiral may not have actually paid the 500 it has mentioned and asked Ms W to check this. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've noted what both Admiral and Mrs W and Mr K have said. But I do not think the issue with the payment for the control box needs to hold up my final decision. I say this because if Admiral has never actually made the payment of 500 to cover the issues with the battery, it needs to do so. Putting things right For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I've decided to uphold Mr and Mrs W's complaint and make Admiral do the following: Pay them 280. 24 to cover the costs they incurred as a result of the poor repairs to Mr W's car and the poor service they received, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date each of the costs making up this amount (excluding the control box) were incurred to the date of payment. * Pay them a further 675 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. * Pay Mr and Mrs W the 500 it offered to cover the cost to them of the issues with the battery and control box if it has not paid them this amount already. If it has not paid this amount already Admiral must add interest to this amount at 8% per annum simple from the date of the final response letter in which it offered this amount to the date of payment. * * Admiral must tell Mr and Mrs W if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much it's taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr and Mrs W if asked to do so. This will allow Mr and Mrs W to reclaim the tax from His Majesty's Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate. 