The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay his claim on a commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a van made by a large vehicle-maker and first registered in 2008. For the year from mid-February 2021, Mr M had the van insured on a policy with Admiral. In late January 2022, Mr M reported that someone had stolen the van. Mr M later got the van back, with some damage. In early August 2022, Admiral declined Mr M's claim. Mr M complained to Admiral that it should pay his claim. By a final response dated 24 March 2023, Admiral turned down the complaint. It said the following: From the evidence we have obtained from the vehicles Engine Control Unit and the Independent Engineers report we know that your key was used to take it that day. Mr M brought his complaint to us in mid-July 2023. Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that she'd asked for further information from Admiral, but this wasn't provided. The investigator didn't think that there was enough evidence to say Mr M had been fraudulent with his claim. She recommended that Admiral should: 1. remove any internal or external markers which relate to fraud from Mr M; and 2. pay out the claim, based on the value of the vehicle from the date of loss; and 3. pay 200. 00 compensation to address the distress and inconvenience caused by the claim, and the marker being applied. Mr M and Admiral each provided further information. The investigator changed her opinion. The investigator no longer recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didn't think that she had enough evidence that Admiral had acted unfairly. Mr M disagreed with the investigator's changed opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that: Thieves cloned the key. Admiral lost the CCTV which would've shown how long the thieves took to clone the key. The vehicle ECU [Engine Control Unit] would recognise the cloned key as the same key. So the key he provided to Admiral would show as the only key programmed to the vehicle. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I accept that Admiral missed the opportunity to obtain CCTV images of the taking of the van. I don't condone Admiral's delay in asking for CCTV. I've also considered the evidence Mr M has obtained from the internet. From that, I accept that it would've been possible for thieves to produce a copy of a key for Mr M's van. However, compared to information various people have posted online, I place more weight on the information a locksmith gave Admiral specifically about Mr M's key. So I don't consider that thieves could've produced a clone, indistinguishable from Mr M's key. I consider that thieves could only have produced a copy that would still have to be programmed into the van and that the ECU would've shown as a separate key. Admiral concluded there was only one key that was coded for use in the van, and Mr M had that key after the reported theft. Also, that key still unlocked and started the van after its recovery. Admiral concluded that Mr M (or someone with his key) had taken the van before he reported it stolen. I consider that this conclusion was supported by enough evidence. So I don't find that Admiral treated Mr M unfairly by declining his claim and recordings concerns that the claim had been fraudulent. As there was only one key, I don't consider that the CCTV would've changed the outcome in Mr M's favour. Overall, I don't find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. I don't direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2024. Christopher Gilbert Ombudsman