The complaint
Miss H complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) caused delays and unfairly settled her claim after she made a claim on her home insurance policy. Accredited are the underwriters of this policy i. e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the intermediary. As Accredited have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Accredited includes the actions of the intermediary. There are several parties and representatives of Accredited involved throughout the complaint but for the purposes of this complaint I'm only going to refer to Accredited. 
What happened
Paint was accidently spilled causing damage to Miss H's upstairs landing and bedroom carpets. She made a claim on her home contents insurance policy. A settlement of 970 less the policy excess was calculated. There was a delay in the claim progressing because during its validation process Accredited found Miss H had not disclosed some relevant information to it. Accredited made some enquiries about this with the broker and then contacted Miss H to discuss the next steps of her claim. Accredited paid Miss H 75 for this delay and because she had needed to chase matters to progress her claim. After reviewing the evidence provided by Miss H the settlement Accredited lowered its offer to 670. This reduction was due to cover not being authorised for an undamaged bedroom carpet that Miss H had included in her claim. Accredited's approved retail partner attended Miss H's home and provided an estimate for the replacement carpets and it finally made an offer of 1076. 85 less the policy excess. Accredited accepted Miss H's claim had been subject to poor communication which had resulted in delays and paid her a further 75 as an apology for the inconvenience caused. It did not uphold Miss H's complaint point that it had not covered the cost to replace the undamaged bedroom carpet. Because Miss H was not happy with Accredited, she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the terms of Miss H's policy did not cover for the undamaged carpet in the adjoining bedroom, so they did not expect Accredited to cover the cost of replacing it. They said the lack of communication and avoidable delays from Accredited would've caused distress and inconvenience, but the 150 paid was within the range we would award. As Miss H is unhappy with our investigator's view the complaint has been brought to me for a final decision to be made. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Claim delay Miss H made her claim via Accredited's self-service claim portal in September 2023. I saw the initial delay to Miss H's claim being settled was when Accredited went through its validation process and it was found that she had not disclosed some information that was held on her financial record. Miss H explained she had not disclosed this information because she had never been asked. Miss H's policy had renewed for several years and Accredited accepted it had not specifically asked for this missing information. It proceeded with her claim. I saw that Miss H made a number of contacts with Accredited to progress her claim during October 2023. Accredited accepted that although the enquiries it made to validate her policy were necessary, some delays could have been avoided. In early November it paid her 75 for the poor communication received that had resulted in delays. I think this amount is fair in the circumstances of this part of her complaint. Claim value I looked at the images of the spilled paint and saw damage caused to the carpet to the landing and into one bedroom. There was no damage to the carpet in a second bedroom. From the information Miss H had entered in to Accredited's self-service claims portal it calculated a settlement offer of 970. Miss H accepted this offer. On 5 November 2023 Accredited contacted Miss H to progress her claim. It asked for more information and requested photographs of the damage. I saw Miss H provided this information on 8 November 2023. When Accredited looked into the details of the claim it found it included a second bedroom carpet. It said this carpet was not covered under the terms of the policy. I looked at the terms and conditions of Miss H's policy and in section 2 it says; If a carpet or curtain is damaged beyond repair we will only pay for the damaged carpet or curtains. We will not pay for undamaged carpets or curtains in adjoining rooms even if they are the same colour or design. Because there was only damage to the landing and one bedroom, Accredited relied on the terms of the policy to decline cover for the undamaged carpet in the second bedroom. I can understand Miss H would like both bedroom carpets to be replaced, however this is not covered by her policy, and I cannot fairly ask Accredited to pay to replace the undamaged carpet. Miss H's claim was recalculated without including the second bedroom carpet and in mid-November 2023 Accredited made a settlement offer of 670. As Miss H was not happy with this offer, Accredited's retail partner visited her property on 23 November 2023. The settlement offer was then increased to 1076. 85 less the policy excess. Accredited accepted it had taken a number of attempts to make its settlement to Miss H and that there had been some delays in reviewing information provided by its partners and responding to her. It paid her a further 75 as an apology for the inconvenience caused. Although I understand Miss H will be disappointed I think the 150 paid for the delay and inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of this complaint. It is in line with the range our service would award. Therefore, I don't uphold Miss H's complaint and don't require Accredited to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2024.