The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited held him at fault for a claim made on motor insurance policy. He wants the liability decision changed. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident with another driver, and he told Aviva that he wasn't at fault and didn't want to claim for repairs. The other driver made a personal injury claim and Aviva opened a claim and investigated the incident. Mr R provided his version of events, photographs and a diagram to Aviva. It appointed a claims investigator to interview Mr R, but Mr R wasn't provided with the final statement he had made so that he could check this. Aviva then held Mr R liable for the incident. Mr R said the investigator's report had missed out crucial information. Aviva accepted that Mr R should have had sight of the final report. Aviva reconsidered the evidence and Mr R's further information. But this didn't change its liability decision. Mr R remained unhappy. Our Investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva had acknowledged that Mr R should have seen the investigator's final report. But he thought it had reasonably considered Mr R's further information, and the other evidence available, in reaching its liability decision. He thought it was entitled to do this by the policy's terms and conditions. So he thought Aviva hadn't treated Mr R unfairly. Mr R replied that he'd been stationary at the time of the collision. He said he hadn't overtaken the other driver. He thought the claims investigator had lied to him. Mr R asked for an Ombudsman's review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I can see that Mr R is adamant that he wasn't at fault for the incident. I can understand that Aviva's decision to hold him liable must be very frustrating for him. Mr R has explained that this will affect his No Claims Discount (NCD) and his premiums. Mr R has also explained that he had other issues with Aviva previously. But I can't consider those here, just the matters Aviva has had an opportunity to respond to following his complaint. Mr R said he was stationary when the other driver emerged from the left and cut into his lane before turning right and hitting his car. Mr R said the collision was at low speed and so he thought the other driver's personal injury claim was fraudulent. But the other driver said Mr R had attempted to overtake him from behind and so had hit the rear of his car. The Investigator has already explained that it isn't our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr R the same as someone else in his position. Aviva is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making its decision on liability. The evidence that Aviva had to consider was the other driver's allegations, Mr R's version of events, his photographs taken at the scene, and his diagram of what happened. There were no independent witnesses, CCTV or dashcam footage available. Aviva asked its in house engineer to review the photographs and the damage caused for consistency with the conflicting versions of events. He thought the other driver's version of events was more likely. Aviva then instructed a claims investigator to get more detail from Mr R. Aviva then considered this evidence and decided that it would be unable to defend Mr R if the matter went to court, so it admitted liability. Aviva accepts that an error was made when the investigator sent in his report before Mr R had a chance to check it for accuracy. But, after Mr R complained, Aviva reviewed his further comments, and this didn't change its decision. So I can't say the error caused Mr R any loss. So I'm satisfied that Aviva reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before making its decision on liability. I think it's entitled to do this by the policy's terms and conditions, so I can't say it did anything wrong in this. Mr R wanted Aviva to settle the other driver's claim on a without prejudice basis. But Aviva is entitled to settle a claim as it sees fit. So I can't say it was wrong for it to decline to do this. Mr R thought the other driver's claim for personal injuries was fraudulent. But I haven't seen any evidence to show this. I think Aviva is entitled by the policy's terms and conditions to deal with the other driver's claim as it sees fit. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2024. Phillip Berechree Ombudsman