The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim they've made on their buildings insurance policy following an escape of water at their property and has refused to investigate further. 
What happened
Mr H has led on this complaint with this Service so I'll refer to him mainly throughout. References I make to his actions include those of Ms H. AXA is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. it's the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agents for which AXA has accepted responsibility. Any reference to AXA includes the actions of its agents. The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been previously documented by our Investigator so I've included a summary here. Mr H noted pooling of water at his property which was causing areas of damp in the walls and floor. Around the same time, he reported water on the road near his property to the local water company. It undertook investigations and it repaired a small leak in a ferrule. This didn't resolve the damp issue in Mr H's living room though. Water on the road persisted and the water company returned another four times and undertook further extensive investigations. This included an area of dampness in the garden which Mr H thought might be related to a water pipe but the water company said this was actually a gas pipe. It concluded there was no evidence of any confirmed leaks from their equipment responsible for the apparent water under Mr H's property. Mr H contacted AXA to make a claim on his policy. AXA appointed a specialist to investigate and validate the claim. It arranged for specialist drainage and leak detection experts to attend the property and undertake investigations. The conclusion was there was no evidence to show the damp areas in the property were as a result of an escape of water. It said the likely cause of the damp was rising damp and/or ingress of water via the neighbouring chimney. Mr H disagreed with this and provided comments from a chimney sweep who said there was no damp in the chimney. Mr H was unhappy AXA hadn't undertaken further investigations into a well which he thought might possibly be underneath his property. Mr H complained to AXA. It stated it was Mr H's responsibility to prove his claim not its responsibility to find any causes of damage. It said following its investigations, it hadn't found the damage was related to an insured event. And, if as Mr H believed, the cause was a well beneath his property, then this wouldn't be covered as it wouldn't be a one-off event, but a gradually operating cause. The claim remained declined. Mr H raised a complaint with this service. Our Investigator considered the evidence but didn't uphold it. She said AXA had undertaken extensive investigations and following this, there wasn't evidence to show the damage was as a result of an insured peril and so there wasn't any cover under the policy for Mr H's claim. She also said, if there was a well underneath the property from which water had leaked, this wouldn't be an insured event, so AXA wasn't under an obligation to undertake any testing to confirm whether or not there was a well present. Overall, she was satisfied AXA had undertaken all reasonable testing and investigations that were required of it given the available cover under the policy. Mr H asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should also settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the loss is covered under the policy terms. And if an insurer says an exclusion applies and so declines the claim, the onus is on it to show that exclusion applies. I'll be keeping these principles in mind while considering this complaint, together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable. Our remit is to say how complaints should be resolved quickly and with minimum formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and that might mean I don't comment on everything the parties have said but I can confirm I have read and considered everything even if I don't reference it specifically. Insurance policies rarely provide cover for everything that might happen to a property, and Mr H's is no different. I generally wouldn't expect an insurer to pay a claim for damage that isn't covered under the policy. Similarly, the extent of the investigations I would expect it to undertake would be limited to establishing whether the cause of damage is an insured peril. I wouldn't expect an insurer to continue investigations beyond this. The two perils which seem to me to be relevant to claims of the type Mr H has made are: Escape of water from, or the freezing of water in washing machines, dishwashers or any fixed domestic applianceAccidental breakage of underground drains and pipes and accidental damage to cables and underground tanks providing services to or from your home for which you are legally responsible. So I've gone on to consider whether there's enough evidence to support the damage being as a result of one of these perils and whether AXA has undertaken a reasonable investigation to establish this. AXA appointed two different specialists to undertake investigations. They undertook numerous tests the results of which have been detailed previously by our Investigator and I don't propose to repeat here. In summary though, the drainage expert found no evidence of drainage in the vicinity of the damage and the leak detection experts found no evidence of leaks from Mr H's property or his neighbour's. AXA therefore concluded the damage may have related to ground water and/or water ingressing via the neighbour's chimney. Mr H provided comments from a chimney sweep which said the inside of the chimney showed no sign of damp. I acknowledge these comments but, given the chimney sweep isn't a damp expert, they don't persuade me it's more likely all the possible alternative causes suggested by AXA are incorrect. Mr H believes there's possibly an underground well under his property and wants AXA to investigate this. I've not seen anything in the policy terms which persuades me a leak from an underground well would likely be an insured peril so I'm satisfied AXA has acted fairly in declining to investigate this further. Having thought about this all very carefully, I'm satisfied from what I've been given to consider there's no evidence to support the damage to Mr H's property is as a result of one of the insured perils detailed above. I'm also satisfied AXA has undertaken a reasonable investigation into establishing this and I'm not persuaded it needs to undertake any further investigations at this stage. AXA has said to Mr H, if he obtains further evidence which shows the damage is as a result of an insured peril, he should share it with its agents for them to consider. Bearing in mind the onus is on Mr H to prove his claim, I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 