The complaint
Mr L complains about difficulty uploading evidence of his No Claims Discount (NCD) on the Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) website for his motor insurance policy. Reference to AA in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In November 2023 Mr L applied for motor insurance through the AA website, with a policy start date in December 2023. He received a confirmation of cover email from AA asking him to provide proof of his NCD by the beginning of January 2024. The email invited Mr L to provide it through his online account. However, when Mr L tried to upload his proof of NCD he was unable to do this, getting an error message saying there had been a technical issue uploading the file. The message invited him to try again, or alternatively to send the proof in an email, by post or by phoning their contact centre. Mr L contacted AA through the web chat facility to explain the issue he had uploading proof of NCD. AA suggested refreshing the screen, trying an alternative web browser or emailing to an email address. AA also confirmed Mr L's policy number and that his online account had been registered, but the online portal would go live some 24 hours before his policy was due to come into effect. Mr L used the email address provided in the web chat exchange to send the proof of NCD. Unhappy at the experience and difficulties he had trying to upload the proof of NCD, Mr L complained. In their final response issued in January 2024, AA didn't uphold the complaint. They said the document had been uploaded successfully four times, but the error message appeared on the fifth. It could take up to 24 hours for the document(s) to show up on Mr L's account, which is why the web chat agent couldn't confirm they'd been successfully uploaded (so Mr L was provided with an email address to send the document). AA said the email address was also in his welcome pack. And from his first attempt to upload the document online to the web chat email providing the email address was a period of 19 minutes, indicating Mr L hadn't been significantly inconvenienced. Mr L then complained to this Service. He tried persistently to upload his proof of NCD, but the AA website wasn't operating properly due to a technical error. Uploading proof of NCD was important to avoid a new policy being invalidated. Nor was there any alternative, email or other address on the website to provide the proof of NCD. And the only way to obtain this information was by opening up a web chat conversation but it should have been available under the Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) section. AA falsely stated the information was in the policy welcome pack, but he hadn't received a welcome pack as he took out his policy online, and the AA agent on the web chat confirmed welcome packs weren't sent out until the policy started. The experience caused Mr L distress and inconvenience and significant time. He wanted 70 compensation. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint, concluding AA didn't need to take any further action. The evidence from AA indicated Mr L tried to upload the NCD document six times but only one incidence of an error message. Mr L also accessed the email attachment sent to him by AA which contained the necessary contact information, meaning the web chat wasn't necessary. As AA had requested the proof of NCD by January 2024, there was no immediate urgency to upload the document in November, and sufficient time to resolve any issues. AA acted promptly to address his concerns and provide assistance to resolve the issue. Mr L disagreed with the investigator's conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. He said the facts and information provided (by the AA) had been misquoted. He'd uploaded the proof of NCD document multiple times, and the error message was displayed on each occasion. And he hadn't received confirmation the document had been uploaded successfully, which is why he then had to use other forms of communication and route to submit the document. It was only when he complained to AA they confirmed the document had been uploaded, contrary to what their website records indicated. At that point Mr L had already been inconvenienced. And further checks and evidence indicated the same technical issue was still present some two weeks later. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My role here is to decide whether AA have acted fairly towards Mr L. The key issue in Mr L's complaint is the difficulty he experienced trying to upload proof of his NCD. He says he tried multiple times to upload the document and had to use the web chat facility to obtain alternative means to provide the document to AA. AA say the document was uploaded on several occasions, but not on one occasion. They provided advice and support to Mr L through the web chat facility and that their contact details were provided to Mr L in their welcome email as well as through the web chat. I'd firs want to assure Mr L I've looked carefully at all the evidence, information and representations he's provided when bringing his complaint and subsequently, including in response to our investigator's view. I've also looked carefully at what AA have provided, alongside what Mr L has provided, when coming to my decision. Having done so, I've concluded AA acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L in the specific circumstances of this case. I know this will be disappointing to Mr L, so I'll set out why I've come to this conclusion. Looking at what happened, it is clear Mr L had difficulty uploading his proof of NCD document. I've seen the error message Mr L has provided, which refers to a technical issue uploading the file'. This doesn't indicate whether the issue was with the AA website or the file itself although the evidence from AA records the document was successfully uploaded on four occasions and unsuccessfully on one occasion. While Mr L had provided one screenshot, he says he got the same message on the other occasions. This would be consistent with him attempting multiple uploads. While it's clear Mr L had issued uploading the document, I've then considered AA's response. As an online policy, I think it's reasonable for AA to provide a web chat facility for consumers to access if they want to raise any issues or, as in this case, are having a problem. I've looked at the web chat record, I can see the AA agent identifies the problem uploading the document and suggests some alternative routes (as set out above) including an email address to which Mr L can send the document. The agent also provides Mr L with his policy number to enable any email he sends can be linked to his policy. The timing of the web chat is shortly after Mr L attempts to upload the document and lasts 13 minutes. Taking these points together, while Mr L did have difficulty uploading his proof of NCD document, he was able to obtain alternative means to submit the document within a short time of the problem. So, I've concluded AA acted fairly and reasonably in responding to the problems Mr L was experiencing. While I've reached this conclusion, I've also considered that AA provided a welcome letter (via email) which their records show was downloaded shortly before the web chat. The welcome letter includes a request for proof of NCD, to be provided before the start of January 2024. As well as the option to upload the document through his online account, the letter provides the same email address as that provided by the web chat agent. It also provides a postal address to which the document can be sent though I appreciate Mr L didn't have printer facilities so couldn't use this route (as his NCD document had been provided to him digitally). So, while he had problems trying to upload the document, Mr L had alternative routes to provide it (in addition to what he was told on the web chat). Given the dates involved in this case and Mr L's complaint, a further aspect I've considered is the recently introduced Consumer Duty (the Duty). The Duty applies to open products and services where the event date was on or after 31 July 2023. Under the Duty, firms should act to deliver good outcomes for customers (the Consumer Principle). They should act in good faith, avoid foreseeable harm, and enable and support retail customers to pursue their financial objectives (the Cross-cutting Rules). In addition, there are four outcomes where the Duty can be assessed (products and services; price and value; consumer understanding; and consumer support). I've considered the requirements of the Duty in the circumstances of this case, and I've concluded AA haven't breached the requirements. From the events set out above, I think they provided appropriate support to Mr L when he experienced difficulty uploading his proof of NCD document and in providing alternative options to submit the document. Taking all these points together, I've concluded AA acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr L. So, I won't be asking them to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it's my final decision not to uphold Mr L's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2024.