The complaint
Mrs M complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) failed to provide support or advice after her car was hit by a third-party. She is also unhappy that the insurer failed to register her claim on her motor insurance policy, after she notified them of it. 
What happened
A third-party vehicle hit the back of Mrs M's parked car. The third-party driver admitted liability and gave Mrs M the contact details of a company which she understood to be an insurance company. She signed an agreement for this company to manage her claim. Approximately two weeks after the incident Mrs M contacted Admiral, with whom she held her motor insurance policy, to inform it of the situation and because she wanted some advice about the company she had agreed could manage her claim. Admiral's agent explained it couldn't influence her decision on who should deal with her claim. It said it believed she was dealing with an accident management company (AMC) and not the third-party insurer. Mrs M made a second call to Admiral the following week and she was given the same response that it could not advise who should deal with her claim. The claim was recorded as a notification only. Mrs M feels Admiral should have done more to warn her about the potential risks of dealing with the AMC on her first call and that if it had told her not to continue with the AMC she could have cancelled her agreement with them. Admiral said its agent had been clear about her options and correctly explained he was unable to influence her decision on how she progressed with her claim due to financial conduct authority (FCA) regulations. Admiral accepted it had not set up Mrs M's claim as agreed. It apologised and paid her 100 for any inconvenience this may have caused. Because Mrs M was not happy with Admiral, she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and was satisfied Admiral hadn't treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably, as it had provided her with adequate information to make an informed decision about the options available to her. They felt the compensation offered for the delay in recording her claim was fair. As Mrs M is unhappy with our investigator's view the complaint has been brought to me for a final decision to be made. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Support and advice I listened to the call made by Mrs M to Admiral on 12 July 2023. Admiral's agent was clear that they were unable to influence her decision on how to progress with the claim. I heard the agent explain that Mrs M could close the claim with the AMC and then go through itself or even the third- party insurer. The agent was clear she would need to relinquish any arrangement with the AMC first. The agent also told her that they could record the claim on Admiral's system as notification only, but this was not completed on the call. I also listened to the second call made to Admiral by Mrs M on 20 July 2023. She rang to discuss her policy premiums because her car had been declared a total loss and therefore she no longer had it. On this call the agent gave the same message that they were unable to influence her decision on how to progress with the claim. On this call the agent told Mrs M she needed to record the claim with Admiral, and it would be recorded as notification only. I do understand that Mrs M thinks Admiral should have told her not to continue with the AMC. However Admiral correctly adhered to FCA regulations by not telling her to cancel the claim through the AMC, so I am unable to agree it made an error . Admiral did reiterate several times that it couldn't advise what the best way for her to progress with her claim was, and explained this was due to FCA regulations. It did give her options to enable her to make a decision. I am very sorry for the situation Mrs M has found herself in, but I am unable to uphold this part of her complaint for the reasons I have explained. Claim Mrs M's claim was not recorded on the first call. Admiral's agent did offer to do this but did not insist on it. The agent said it could be done by Mrs M or it would be done by the AMC once the claim was concluded. During the second call made to Admiral by Mrs M, its agent told her the claim had to be recorded as a notification only and proceeded to do this. Mrs M was told that although she did not have motor legal protection cover Admiral could still arrange for its legal partner to contact her to discuss any uninsured losses or personal injury. It said any decision to pursue her claim, or not, would be made solely by the legal partner. Mrs M accepted this offer, and it was confirmed to her in writing. Due to an error in Admiral's system the instruction to its legal partner did not go through and therefore no contact with Mrs M was made, as had been agreed by Admiral. Admiral agreed it should have set up the claim as a notification only when Mrs M made the first call. It also agreed when it did set the claim up, that instruction was not sent to its legal partner on the same day. It apologised for the trouble and upset this caused to her and paid her 100. I think this is a fair outcome. I know Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision and her experience with the ACM has been a very worrying and distressing time for her. However, I do not uphold her complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything further in this case. 