The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled a claim they made following an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to their insurer, Aviva, following an escape of water at their home in February 2021. Aviva's appointed agents inspected the damage and agreed a timetable for works. The works would be due to end around August 2021 according to that timetable, but this deadline was missed. An amended completion date of December 2021 was also missed as well as several others during 2022. During the summer of 2022 Mr and Mrs S appointed an independent third party to meet with the contractors on site to discuss unfinished work but this did not resolve the issues. Following repairs, Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with various issues so they complained to Aviva. The first complaint dealt with the period between February 2022 and June 2023. That complaint was referred to our service previously and a final decision was issued on that complaint in November 2023. The second complaint concerned ongoing issues from June 2023. Mr and Mrs S also said Aviva's contractors caused damage to their boundary wall, but that Aviva refused to cover this. Aviva considered the second complaint and maintained that it was correct to decline the claim for the damage to the wall because there was no evidence it was hit with a vehicle, and that it showed signs of gradually occurring damage. It also said that in relation to the ongoing claim, the insurance was there to rectify damage caused by an insured peril and some of the work Mr and Mrs S had asked Aviva to look into had nothing to do with the escape of water. Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy so they also referred their second complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things but didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there wasn't enough evidence to show Aviva was liable for the damage to the wall. And that some of the other damage was not related to the escape of water. Because Mr and Mrs S didn't agree with our investigator's assessment, the complaint has now come to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold this complaint. I'll explain why. Mr and Mrs S have mentioned significant delays in the claim process. They've said they were promised that issues would be rectified within 133 days but that it actually took over 1000 days for Aviva to do the job. However, the delays, missed meetings that were scheduled, moving costs and compensation were all considered in the previous complaint, which one of our Ombudsmen has already issued a decision about. So I won't be able to comment further on those points. In relation to the inadequacy of repairs, Mr and Mrs S have sent us photos of stain marks on the walls and other photos of damage around the property. Aviva's view is that there were inherent defects which could have caused rising and penetrating damp leading to the issues within the internal walls and this does not necessarily indicate poor workmanship on the part of Aviva. It's also said it has rectified the problems that it had identified as being related to the escape of water claim. Having looked at the evidence available, I agree with Aviva about this. Some areas in the photos are not within the original scope for repair, for example the area of wall that has not been painted. And I'm persuaded that the issues with the stains on the walls are indicative of rising and penetrating damp, which Aviva said it made Mr and Mrs S aware of. Nonetheless, Aviva has agreed to cover areas which require painting as long as these were within the original scope of works and were areas that were affected by the escape of water. Aviva has offered to settle this upon production of estimates and by way of cash settlement, and it's made clear that a pristine finish wouldn't be possible in areas affected by inherent damp at the property. I think this is a fair offer, so I won't be asking Aviva to do any more about this. I've looked at the evidence regarding the boiler and I'm afraid there's not enough information to suggest that it was damaged by the escape of water. I think it's more likely that the damage is due to age of the appliance and lack of maintenance, as mentioned on the gas safety certificate from July 2023. And in relation to the dishwasher, washing machine and dryer, I'm satisfied that these were to be disposed of and not reconnected at Mr and Mrs S's request, from what Aviva has sent us. And I can see that contents would not be covered under a buildings only claim. The wall that Mr and Mrs S say was damaged by Aviva's contractors has been inspected. I've looked at the report provided, but this does not confirm that Aviva is liable or that the damage is consistent with an accident involving a vehicle. I say this because even parts of the report that refer to the reported vehicular mirror impact go on to say that the wall does not show signs of any displaced, loose, cracked or damaged brickwork, which I'd expect to see if there was vehicular impact. I'm more persuaded by the report that the condition of the wall meant it was gradually deteriorating and would likely need to be rebuilt within a few years. If Mr and Mrs S had provided more persuasive evidence that Aviva's contractor did cause the damage to the wall then I could have considered this point further. But on the basis of the evidence I have, it seems more likely that the wall collapsed due to its age and condition. I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision and I do appreciate that their claim journey has been difficult and drawn out over the last few years. However, I'm afraid that for the reasons I've given above, I won't be asking Aviva to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.