The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the repair works carried out by Covea Insurance plc (Covea) following a claim on their buildings insurance policy for damage to their property caused by a landslip. Any reference to Covea includes the actions of its agents. Because Mr D is leading on this complaint, for ease, I've referred to him throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I've summarised events. Mr D has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by Covea. He made a claim on the policy when his property suffered damage following a landslide which had occurred due to heavy rain. Damage was caused to the wall of the property and a drain culvert. Covea accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to manage it, who in turn instructed contractors to complete the repairs. Mr D complained about the repairs saying they weren't satisfactory. He said: Drainage had been installed at an incorrect level resulting in his property flooding every time it rained. Prior to the landslip and repair there hadn't been a problem with water ingress. The water ingress into his property was causing damp and high humidity levels which in turn was causing health problems for him and his family. And the damp conditions have caused an unpleasant odour. Incorrect repair methods had been used and were not in line with the manufacturer's installation guidelines. Mature vegetation had been removed and replaced with nursery vegetation which will take years to grow. He said it should have been a like for like replacement. In its final response dated 21 December 2022, Covea said: The embankment at the rear of the property had to be stabilised to repair the culvert. Its contractor had said the chosen method of stabilisation had been used successfully on several occasions. The new drainage culvert had been installed at the same level as the existing, undamaged part of the culvert and so, it had met its obligation under the policy. The work by its contractor has now directed the water collected in the culvert away from the wall. Though it understood Mr D's concerns about the vegetation, it said it had been assured this would establish in due course but will take some time. It acknowledged that the weep holes remain an issue, particularly during heavy rainfall. It said, Mr D may wish to consider installing a drain at the internal face of the wall. Unhappy with Covea's decision, Mr D brought a complaint to this Service. He shared a copy of his engineer's report with us dated April 2023, which he said confirmed the repairs had not been carried out correctly. The engineer reiterated Mr D's concerns adding: He didn't consider the design or remedial works to have been shown to be compliant with building regulations. Covea had departed from its initial design of replacing the concrete canvas mat with site won earth and material mixed with cement. If the repairs had been carried out in line with good engineering practice the issue of water ingress would be resolved. The cement bound material at the surface means water isn't able to permeate the soil. A drain cavity tanking system should be installed to the internal space to allow water through the wall and to collect in a shallow surface drain - which would convey the water into a storm water drainage system. Mr D added that he'd been financially impacted as a result of Covea's handling of the claim saying he'd had to remove and replace plasterwork, as well as tiles, due to the water ingress. He raised concerns about his property requiring drying due to the additional humidity, and the expense of having to re-turf his garden and add suitable drainage. He explained his worry about whether a landslip would occur again owing to what he considers to be inadequate repairs had taken a toll on his mental health. To put things right, Mr D would like his own surveyor and contractor to complete the repairs from scratch and for the scope and method of repair to be in line with his engineer's recommendation. He said Covea's chartered engineer hadn't visited his property and so, he doesn't consider their findings to be reliable. Initially, Covea said the complaint had been made to this Service too late - referring to a final response letter it had issued in February 2020. The Investigator considered this but said that complaint was about a separate matter, and the current one concerned the ongoing claim which Covea had issued a subsequent final response letter to in December 2022. So, she was satisfied the matter had been referred to this Service in time. Covea didn't reply, and so, the Investigator issued a view on the available information. She upheld the complaint saying Covea should liaise with Mr D's engineer to decide a mutually agreeable way forward based on his expert's report. The cost of doing so should be covered by Covea. And she said it should cover the cost of his engineer's report. Finally, in light of the impact the situation had had on Mr D's health, as well as the inconvenience he'dexperienced, she said Covea should pay him 500 compensation. Because Covea didn't reply to the Investigator's findings, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsman's decision. It subsequently came to light that Covea hadn't been provided with Mr D's engineer's report so this was shared with it. And in reply Covea said: Mr D's engineer hadn't presented evidence to indicate the slope was unstable. And it questioned the persuasiveness of the report, saying the engineer's findings were based on a desktop review, rather than a physical site inspection. It's common practice for schemes to be refined on site as more information becomes available. It said its contractor had originally advised to re-grade the slope and protect the toe with a concrete canvas mat, but further site investigations led to the decision that profiling the slope using reinforced soil / geotextile mattressing to form a tiered buttressed support was more suitable. It said Mr D's engineer's comment about the concrete canvas mat was, therefore, irrelevant. It wasn't obligated to stabilise the slope it was only required to repair the damage, but what it has done vastly reduces the likelihood of landslip in the future. The erosion matting had been used in similar schemes and it was satisfied vegetation would establish over time without the addition of soil being placed on the slope. It doesn't accept the external storage room has ever been watertight given it had weepholes above floor level and there was no waterproof membrane between the wall and retained hillside. It said cement had been used as a binder with the site recovered earth and didn't mean the ground was impermeable. It had connected the new drainage pipe to the undamaged section of the original culvert this was the simplest solution and did not interfere with the original drainage provision. Mr D nor his engineer had provided evidence to demonstrate the source of the water ingress. It said it had, at Mr D's request, attempted to seal up the weep holes to prevent water coming in. It said it was possible there wasn't damp proof provision to the tiled floor slab which meant ground water was able to rise through the tile and wall joint which means the location of the drain is immaterial. It reiterated its recommendation that Mr D install an internal drain and damp proof the floor slab. Having reviewed this new information, I issued a provisional decision, in which I said: What I've provisionally decided and why I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've also kept in mind Covea's responsibility as an insurer to handle claims fairly and promptly. For ease, I'll address what I consider to be the key issues of this complaint in turn. Stabilising the slope Mr D's engineer says he doesn't consider Covea to have stabilised the slope in accordance with building regulations and that because Covea hasn't provided detailed drawings and plans, there's insufficient evidence to show its chosen stabilising scheme is and will be effective. Whilst I appreciate this is the engineer's opinion, I've not been provided with evidence which shows the slope is unstable. I note the engineer hasn't explained why and how the stabilising scheme doesn't comply with building regulations instead there's only general comments about how it's not been built in accordance with good engineering practice. I'm not persuaded the omission of plans and drawings can reasonably be construed as evidence to show the slope is unstable. Nor do I consider Covea's decision to deviate from the initial stabilising scheme and remedial works to demonstrate the slope isn't stable. So, as things stand, I'm not persuaded Mr D has shown the slope is unstable and I, therefore, don't consider it necessary to ask Covea to take further action in respect of this at this time. However, whilst Covea may consider itself to be absolved of responsibility with regards to stabilising the slope having said its responsibility is limited to repairing the damage caused by the landslip ultimately, it has to provide a lasting and effective repair, and that can't be achieved without first stabilising the slope. As it's now carried out work to the slope if there was an issue with it in the future, then Mr D would be able to bring this matter to Covea and I would expect it to consider it. Erosion matting and vegetation Mr D and his engineer say the matting used to stabilise the bank hasn't been installed in accordance with manufacturer's requirements and that this was supported by the manufacturer. The engineer's report refers to a site visit having been carried out by the manufacturer, but I haven't been provided with a copy of this report, so I don't know what the conclusions of that were. So based on what I have, which is that Covea is satisfied the matting has been installed correctly and the slope is stable, I'm not persuaded it's been shown by Mr D that the matting has been installed incorrectly. Mr D has concerns about the viability of vegetation establishing on the slope, and that's understandable given he previously had mature vegetation in place here. In response, Covea has said it's confident vegetation will establish over time, having successfully used the matting and stabilising scheme on other occasions. At this time, I consider it too early to conclude whether or not vegetation will establish to a reasonable extent. And as I haven't seen anything to persuade me it won't - I'm not directing Covea to do anything in respect of this at present. However, if in the future it becomes apparent the vegetation hasn't grown to a reasonable level, I would expect Covea to consider this further. Water ingress Mr D, together with his engineer, say the position of the drain is causing water to enter the property. He says Covea should have positioned the drain lower into the ground to prevent this from happening. So, I've considered whether Covea can reasonably be held responsible for the water ingress. First, I've considered whether Covea carried out an effective repair to the drain. From what I've seen both parties agree the drain is functioning - in that it's able to convey water as intended, and there's not an identifiable fault with it. So, on its face, the drain isn't leaking and Covea has done what it was required to do in line with the policy which was to fix the damage part of the culvert. However, Mr D says it hasn't carried out a lasting and effective repair because water is coming into his property, and he says this is due to the location of the drain. Whilst Mr D and his engineer might consider it incumbent upon Covea to have lowered the drain, simply put, it wasn't required to do this. Rather, it only had to repair the damaged part of the drain which it has done. So, if the drain isn't leaking, and the position of it hasn't changed, it's not clear to me how the drain - and Covea's repair to it - has caused the water ingress. I also have to keep in mind that the presence of weep holes in the affected area which was previously an external walkway - suggests it was highly unlikely to have ever been watertight. Without Mr D being able to point to another cause for the water ingress which can be attributed to Covea's repairs, I don't consider it can reasonably be held responsible for the water ingress and damage Mr D has said occurred as a result of this. So, I won't be directing Covea to cover the works Mr D's engineer has said are required to prevent water from entering the affected area. Compensation Our Investigator recommended Covea pay Mr D 500 compensation. This was based on the available information she had at the time - which persuaded her that Covea hadn't provided an adequate repair and had in turn, caused Mr D avoidable distress and inconvenience. But this conclusion was reached before Covea had seen and provided a response to Mr D's engineer's report. Now that it's done that and I've had an opportunity to review this new information, I'm satisfied Covea doesn't need to take further action at this stage. And because I don't consider the difficulties Mr D says he's experienced - as a result of the water ingress - to be attributable to Covea's handling of the claim, I won't be directing it to pay him compensation. It's not a decision I've taken lightly as I know it will be very disappointing for Mr D, but simply put, there's insufficient evidence to show Covea is responsible for the water ingress, and in turn the distress and inconvenience Mr D has said this has caused. My provisional decision My provisional decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Both parties replied to my decision. In summary, Mr D said the provisional decision was factually incorrect, and that he had concerns about how future problems with the hillside would be resolved. He reiterated the matting was an eyesore as the vegetation hadn't taken hold, and it was unreasonable to expect him to live with it. On request, he provided photographs showing how the hillside looked before the landslip occurred. Mr D also provided a letter from his engineer with further comments. In summary, his engineer said: The as-built earth retention system had not been demonstrated to comply with British Standards. And as the documentation was not of adequate design there are no structural or geotechnical calculations to confirm the retention system's structural efficacy. As such it poses a significant health and safety concern. The erosion matting isn't to stabilise the slope, rather it's to allow and promote grass through it in order to stabilise the surface layer of topsoil. But it hasn't been installed correctly because the matting has been dressed up near vertical surfaces, it hasn't been pegged correctly, and the topsoil has been mixed with cement. He added that the slope looked the same as it did 12 months ago with little to no grass covering. The topsoil should be a natural material in accordance with Building Standards. The presence of cement will resist root penetration or grass and reduce the permeability of the surface layer considerably, resulting in an increased amount of surface water run-off. This in turn will likely result in an increase in the volume of water reaching the back of the concrete block retaining wall, and the likelihood of water ingress at the base of the wall. Mr D's engineer's comments were shared with Covea, and in reply it said: It would expect it to take several years for the vegetation to fully establish itself. Vegetation is likely to establish itself at a high level in the first instance and then spread down the slope. Treated arisings and stone was only used in the stepped buttress mattress at low level on the slope at the top, the soil beneath the matting is untreated, and is the as found subsoils. Treatment of the arisings and the stone with cement was only around 5% and its purpose was merely to bind the material with the mattress. At this level of treatment, the material is not impermeable and ground water should still percolate through the hillside as normal. So, it doesn't consider there to be any significant increase in surface run off as a result of the works. It agreed with Mr D's engineer that the earth stabilisation works weren't in accordance with Building Standards but said it didn't set out to do this. The works were undertaken as a necessity to safely undertake the drainage repair work saying there's no liability on it to undertake slope stabilisation. It said that in any event, there's been stormy, wet weather since, but no evidence has been presented that the hillside is unstable. It also agreed the matting wasn't to stabilise the slope. It said the matting was not part of the specification for buttressing the slope and that it was added to smooth over the tiers and aid the re-establishment of vegetation. It's satisfied it's performing as anticipated. It added that Mr D's engineer seems to have misunderstood the purpose and some of the details of the works carried out. For example, that it didn't place cement treated topsoil over the slope and instead had used recovered suitable granular arisings and mixed it with imported stone with the cement binder. It reiterated that this was only used with the geotextile mattress and any topsoil placed on the tiers was natural. Mr D provided installation guides for the matting, together with comments from a seller of the erosion matting. Mr D said the supplier's comments support his position that the matting had been installed incorrectly. The supplier's comments were as follows: As the ground has been mixed with concrete we wouldn't expect this to help with any root penetration however, we are not sure on the ratio of the mix used. The vertical faces of the embankment however will not support any vegetation growth due to the vertical slope angle, and we wouldn't expect any dense grass or healthy vegetation to grow under the trees due to the shade they cast amongst other details. We would advise removing all the mesh and filling in the gaps between the horizontal and vertical risers with topsoil mixed with seeds to create a slope rather than tiered structure. We would then advise covering this with an Erosion Control mat such our Type 3 and pinning this with intimate coverage to the ground topsoil below, making sure to use extra pings to ensure there will be no uplift of the material. Please note we cannot guarantee that this would provide fast or health growth of vegetation due to the trees above. [] With this type of tree, when the leaves fall it is not helpful to the grass growth below either as they disturb the ground composition due to bacteria they provide, and lack of oxygen. These comments were shared with Covea. In response, Covea maintained its position adding the mattressing was preferable to using gabion baskets or a contiguous pile retaining wall as these would have provided a less green aesthetic. It also said the steepness of the hillside meant it wasn't possible to a form a sloped profile secured with matting. It accepted the vegetation wouldn't take to the vertical faces but said vegetation would grow above it and spread down as had been achieved in other projects. It provided an example of another project where erosion matting had been installed in a similar way to Mr D's it said it showed vegetation taking hold at the top and working its way down and that it had occurred approximately two years after the matting was installed. However, it said Mr D's slope is very steep and so, vegetation will take longer to establish itself due to natural debris collecting on the mesh which weeds will root in. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've also kept in mind Covea's responsibilities as an insurer to handle claims fairly. And having done so, I remain of the same opinion reached in my provisional decision. Before, I explain why, I want to reassure the parties that I've considered all their points, but I've only commented on those which I consider key to determining the complaint. Stabilising the slope I've considered Mr D's engineer's comments about the stability of the slope, and how in their opinion the stabilisation works don't comply with building regulations. The engineer says the slope's stability is uncertain and poses a risk because of this. But, similar to what I said in my provisional decision, I haven't been provided with persuasive evidence which shows the hillside is unstable and that's what is key. So, whilst I accept Mr D's engineer's opinion is that the hillside is likely to fail, at present, it is stable, and I don't consider the lack of design drawings to sufficiently evidence its instability. I appreciate Mr D and his engineer have concerns about the future stability of the hillside, but as I said in my provisional decision, if these materialised, I would expect Covea to deal with this. It had to stabilise the hillside to complete a lasting and effective repair, and so, if it comes to light that it hasn't achieved this, it will need to put this right. But at present, there's not enough evidence to show Covea hasn't done this. And so, I won't be directing it to take further action in respect of stabilising the hillside at this time. Erosion matting and vegetation Both parties have explained the erosion matting itself isn't intended to stabilise the hillside. Rather its purpose is to allow and promote the growth of vegetation. I've set out in the background of my decision each party's position regarding the matting, so I won't reiterate it in detail here. But in brief, Mr D and his engineer say it hasn't been installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. And so, they consider vegetation unlikely to take hold, adding that the appearance of Mr D's property will continue to be afflicted by a large area of black matting as a result. In support of this position, Mr D has provided a photograph of how the hillside looks approximately two years after the matting was installed. Conversely, Covea's expert has said that owing to the steepness of the hillside, it wasn't possible to form a sloping soil profile with matting over it (as recommended by the supplier of the matting) meaning it wouldn't be able to install the matting in line with the manufacturer's instructions. It added, that whilst it accepts vegetation will not take to the vertical faces, it's confident it will spread down from the top of the slope as shown in the photograph of a similar project - which was carried out by the same contractor. So, I need to decide whether Covea has to take further action in respect of the matting and vegetation. It's important to explain Covea's responsibility is to return the hillside to its pre- loss condition, or as close as it can - and if that can't be achieved, it needs to do what's reasonable. Having considered this, together with the parties' comments and evidence, I'm not persuaded Covea needs to take further action at this time, and I'll explain why. Understandably, Mr D is concerned about how the matting looks. He's said it's an eyesore as vegetation hasn't taken hold yet. From looking at Mr D's photograph dated early 2024, it's clear the vegetation hasn't covered the matting. However, there are signs of it taking hold albeit minimally. I have to however, keep in mind Covea has said it would expect it to take several years for the vegetation to establish itself particularly because of the steep gradient of the hillside. That's not to say it won't, rather than it won't happen as quickly as Mr D might expect it to. I've also thought about Mr D's engineer's comment regarding the composition of the topsoil namely, that because it had been mixed with cement it will resist root penetration and won't promote vegetation growth. However, in response to this, Covea has said a cement binder was only used within the geotextile mattressing at a low level, and any topsoil placed over the tiers was natural. So, it seems Covea hasn't used cement in the way Mr D's engineer thought it had. And so, I don't consider the engineer's comment about the lack of permeability owing to the makeup of the soil to be particularly persuasive. I've seen photographs taken before the landslip. Whilst these show it was covered by mature vegetation, it also shows that grass or other vegetation wasn't covering the bottom of the hillside it appears to be just soil. Covea accepts vegetation won't take to the vertical faces but has said it will likely take hold at the top of the hillside first before travelling down. And I'm satisfied that if this happens which Covea has persuaded me it more than likely will - it will return the hillside to how it looked - or reasonably close to how it did - before the landslip occurred. Covea has said it chose to use erosion matting over the stepped buttressing instead of other engineering solutions (such as gabion baskets or a contiguous pile retaining wall) because this would provide a greener and more aesthetically pleasing result for Mr D. Given Mr D's understandable desire to return the hillside to its former greener condition, I consider Covea's decision to use erosion matting to be reasonable in the particular circumstances. I've given thought to the seller's comments about how the matting has been installed, but I'm not inclined to change my mind based on this. I say this because the seller's comments were made without them being aware of the topsoil composition (which Covea has said was a natural composition over the tiers). Nor does it seem the seller was aware of the gradient of the hillside (which Covea has said wouldn't have been able to accommodate a sloped method of installation). Given a sloped method wasn't a viable option, it seems there were potential limitations to how the vegetation could grow but that doesn't mean Covea's decision to install the matting was unreasonable. Given what it's said, it seems the issue of vegetation not taking to the vertical faces (a result of having to create a stepped design) would be overcome by vegetation growing downwards. Furthermore, the seller acknowledges that shade cast from trees in the vicinity of the matting might prevent or inhibit vegetation growth. So, I can't ignore that it's possible the shade from proximate trees might be contributing to the slower growth of vegetation. The above, together with the photographic evidence from Covea - which shows the erosion matting having been installed in a similar way and vegetation having started to establish itself at another project - satisfies me that it wouldn't, at this stage, be reasonable to conclude Covea's stepped design was unreasonable or that vegetation won't establish itself. So, whilst I sympathise with Mr D's situation, as things stand it seems more likely than not vegetation will establish, thus returning the hillside to its pre-loss condition it will just take time given the conditions. As such I'm not persuaded there's anything further for Covea to do at the moment. If, however, Mr D doesn't consider the hillside vegetation to have sufficiently returned to its pre-loss condition in the future, then he's entitled to contact Covea about it. Water ingress With regard to the water ingress, Mr D's engineer has said the reduced permeability of the surface layer (which the engineer says is due to a cement bound mix being used, rather than a natural topsoil), will mean the increase in surface water run-off will likely result in the volume of water reaching the back of the concrete. I've explained above that Covea has explained the composition of the cement bound mixed isn't what Mr D's engineer thought it was so arguably, his concerns about permeability aren't as persuasive. However, I also note Mr D's engineer says, the cement bound mix will likely result in an increase in surface water run-off, not that it will, or that it has. And so, it seems to me Mr D can't reasonably point to lack of permeability as being the cause of the water ingress he says has already happened. I also have to keep in mind the pre-existing weepholes have likely always meant there's been a degree of water ingress. There's also the possibility that other factors such as increased rainfall may be a cause of the alleged increased water. This, coupled with the fact the culvert hasn't been shown to be defective since the repair, means I'm not satisfied I can reasonably conclude the water ingress is a result of Covea's repair and so, I'm not directing it to take further action in respect of this. As explained in my provisional decision because I'm not persuaded Covea is responsible for the difficulties Mr D said he experienced as a result of the water ingress, I won't be directing Covea to pay compensation in respect of these matters. I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision. As I said before, it's not a decision I've taken lightly, but based on all available evidence and arguments, I'm not persuaded Covea needs to take further action at this time. 