The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his motor insurance claim. He's unhappy that Advantage required him to pay back the settlement it had paid him for his stolen car, along with storage costs. Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i. e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S's car was stolen while it was parked outside his parents' house, so he made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Advantage. Mr S told Advantage he had two keys for the car, but he couldn't find one of them. Advantage accepted the claim and paid Mr S a cash settlement. In October 2022, Mr S told Advantage he'd been informed by the police that the vehicle had been recovered. Advantage arranged for the car to be collected from police storage and reviewed by an engineer. In February 2023, Advantage sent Mr S a letter which said he'd broken the terms of his policy agreement and it couldn't cover the cost of his claim. It said it had assessed Mr S's claim and vehicle and had found no evidence to support that there was a theft or attempted theft. Advantage said he needed to pay back the settlement it had paid him for the car. He was also liable for the storage and recovery of the vehicle, which were 530. Advantage had been paid 415. 50 for the salvage of his vehicle, so it had deducted this from what Mr S owed it. The letter was sent to an old address, so Mr S didn't become aware of its contents until March 2023. He said he wanted to appeal Advantage's decision. On a cheaper car such as his, there were many ways in which locks could be circumvented. He also raised concerns that Advantage hadn't acted in a timely manner. He said Advantage had delayed contacting him for four months. This had led to a double loss as he had to repay the claim money and had no opportunity to recover the car, which would have been an option if the claim had been (unfairly) disallowed at an earlier stage. Advantage said it had instructed its supplier to collect Mr S's vehicle. After receiving their report in November 2022, it had instructed independent engineers to assess the vehicle and carry out a read of the keys for it. The reports confirmed no theft-related damage to Mr S's vehicle which the engineers felt was unusual due to it not being keyless entry or having a start/stop system. Damage would normally be identified as a means to gain access to the vehicle. Advantage said its claims team determined in late December they would not be able to cover the claim and finalised their investigation prior to sending Mr S correspondence in mid- February. Advantage said as Mr S had confirmed the spare key went missing a few weeks prior to the incident, measures should have been taken to try to safeguard his vehicle such as getting the key to no longer be associated with it. Mr S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. I issued a provisional decision on 23 May 2024, where I explained why I didn't intend to uphold Mr S's complaint. In that decision I said: I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what I've seen so far, I don't intend to uphold Mr S's complaint. I'll explain why. The policy's terms and conditions say: You, or any person in charge of your Car, must protect it from damage or loss Your Car must be fully locked and secured and any Keys that unlock your Car must be removed when it's left unattended or unoccupied. Advantage says it declined Mr S's claim because it wasn't satisfied that the theft had happened in the way he said it had. Mr S's version of events was that the vehicle was stolen without a key, but Advantage believes that it was stolen using one of Mr S's keys. When Mr S initially contacted Advantage to notify it that the car had been stolen, he said the car had been locked. He was asked if he had any personal items in the car. Mr S said there was a trolley he used for his bikes, but he didn't believe there was anything else in there. When Advantage called Mr S as part of its claim validation process in July 2022, it asked him how many keys he'd been provided with when he bought the car and whether he still had them. Mr S said he had the main key, but he wasn't sure where the second set was. He thought he'd brought it back to his parents' address a couple of weeks before, when he'd returned from his student accommodation. He was asked if there had been any recent break-ins at his parents' house and he said there hadn't been. Mr S was asked if there was any debris or broken glass on the ground where the car had been parked. He said there wasn't. He believed the thieves must have done something to the car's lock. Advantage asked Mr S to try to find the spare key and send a picture of both keys together. Mr S wasn't able to find the spare key, so he sent a photograph of the main key. Although Advantage had concerns that the spare key was missing, it wasn't able to tell how the car had been stolen because the car hadn't yet been recovered. So, it accepted what Mr S had said and settled his claim. However, after the car was recovered by the police, Advantage carried out some further investigations to determine how it might have been stolen. The agents Advantage instructed to recover the car have noted that the police advised they needed the car keys to search the vehicle, which suggests it was locked when it was found. Mr S was asked to provide the key, which he did. An engineer inspected the car in November 2022 and noted: The vehicle is the subject of a theft incident. There are no obvious signs of forced entry, the steering and ignition system/locks appear to be intact. Keys available, non-starter, hence un- confirmed mechanical and electrical condition Advantage arranged for another engineer to assess the vehicle and carry out a read of the keys. The second engineer reached the following conclusion: Physical inspection of the vehicle found no evidence of forced entry, all locks and steering lock were found to be intact with no evidence of tampering to the surrounding area or wiring loom. Interrogation of the ECU found only one fault within the vehicles system which does not relate to theft or attempted theft. Interrogation of the immobiliser found only 2 keys programmed to the immobiliser. This vehicle requires both a mechanically and electronically matched key in order for the vehicle to be taken, as there is no evidence of forced entry or additional keys programmed to the immobiliser we recommend this claim is referred to your claims validation team. Mr S is adamant that his car must have been stolen without a key. However, he's never been able to locate the spare key. He told us that when he made his claim, he believed the key was in his parents' house. He hadn't unpacked the belongings he'd brought back from university, as he intended to return after the summer holidays. So, he thought the key was in one of the boxes he'd brought back. Advantage says it believes Mr S left his vehicle unlocked, with a key inside it leading to the vehicle being stolen, which means he failed to safeguard his vehicle. It's sent a photograph of the boot of Mr S's car from after it was found. This contained a number of items including a holdall bag. Within Advantage's agent's records, there's an email from Mr S where he asks for a number of items to be returned to him, including the holdall bag and a keyring. So, Mr S does appear to have left a number of his belongings in his car. Based on what I've seen, I think it's more likely than not that the car was stolen using one of Mr S's keys. Given that there's no evidence of tampering with the lock and Mr S has said his parents' house hadn't been broken into, it seems likely that the key was left inside Mr S's vehicle. So, I don't think it was unreasonable for Advantage to have decided to reject Mr S's claim. Mr S has also complained that he wasn't given the opportunity to have his vehicle back. I can see he raised this point in his complaint to Advantage, so I've also considered this in my decision. Advantage has commented that when a claim is settled as a total loss and payment is made to a customer, the vehicle becomes its possession. Once a vehicle is recovered, it wouldn't hold on to it indefinitely and would look to recover some of its costs on the claim. It removed the amount it had received from the sale of the car (415. 50) from its recovery request from Mr S. I appreciate Mr S feels he's lost out because he believes the car was worth more than the amount Advantage received from its salvage agents. However, the car no longer belonged to Mr S. So, I'm not persuaded that Advantage needed to return it to him. Mr S has also commented that he had to pay higher storage costs because Advantage was slow to collect his car. Advantage says the police would have needed to authorise its agent to come on site and the agent would need to make sure they had a driver available for that day. It's not always a case of arranging a date the following day or same week due to police restrictions. From what I can see, the police didn't authorise the release of the vehicle until they'd inspected it after receiving the key from Mr S. The notes from the agent who collected the car suggest that a pick-up was scheduled as soon as the police cleared it for pick-up, and it was collected around a week later. So, I'm not persuaded Advantage is responsible for a delay in the recovery of the vehicle from the police. I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, who has incurred additional costs as well as losing his car. I understand this situation has also impacted his mental health and I empathise with him. However, having considered all of the information available to me, I think Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably. I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Responses Advantage said it had no comments to add and agreed with the outcome I'd reached. Mr S said he was extremely disappointed in my conclusion and wished to challenge several statements in my provisional decision. Mr S said Advantage had refused to send him a photo to be able to identify the items that might have been his in the car, saying it did not have the technology. So, he'd asked it to send him everything in the car. He said most of what he was sent was rubbish the thief had dumped in it. Mr S said Advantage's salvage agents told him the car was not starting so they would be scrapping it in a phone call. He said this was dishonest and they had at no point tried to correct this. This had a material impact on his financial loss because it did not allow him the opportunity to buy the car back and sell the car he'd replaced it with. He said Advantage knew it was going to deny his claim and he had to pay all of the cost and value of the car (which it did not manage to even get close to) back. He said Advantage had also refused to share the details of any investigations it had conducted, and he still hadn't had the full engineers' reports. Mr S commented that the letter being sent to the wrong address was also Advantage's fault as it had an updated address on record. This further impacted the delay in the process, pushing the communication to a time when he was already in a period of extreme stress. He'd had a significantly more limited time period to challenge the decision and have to deal with different case people which was harder as he has disabilities. Mr S said he has always been extremely careful at ensuring his car was locked, often checking it multiple times. He didn't believe Advantage had proven beyond a reasonable doubt that he hadn't safeguarded his vehicle. He said he'd provided evidence of how it is very possible to access one of these vehicles and he didn't think this had been given any weight or consideration. Mr S said Advantage had lied about multiple elements of the case and had failed to provide documentation and keep their records up to date. He felt his mental health had only been acknowledged tokenistically by Advantage and the ombudsman service and we had at no point considered the unreasonable way in which he had been treated. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do appreciate this situation has been very difficult for Mr S and I empathise with how it has impacted his mental health. However, I've needed to be fair to both parties and reach an outcome based on all of the information available to me. I don't think there is any doubt that Mr S's car was stolen from him. But Advantage has declined Mr S's claim because it isn't satisfied with the circumstances of his loss. I appreciate Mr S believes his car could have been stolen without the use of a key, but all of the evidence points to one being used. The engineer's report said there was no evidence of forced entry or damage to the steering and ignition system, and it seems that the vehicle was locked when it was found. Mr S still hasn't been able to provide the spare key. Given the importance of being able to show it was still in his possession, I think it's likely he would have found it by now if it had been in his parents' house, as he said it was when he made the claim. I understand Mr S feels he's lost out financially because he wasn't given the opportunity to claim the car back. But as I said in my provisional decision, I'm not persuaded that Advantage needed to give him this option because the car no longer belonged to Mr S when it was found. I acknowledge what Mr S has said about the delay in being informed of Advantage's decision to decline his claim because it had mistakenly sent correspondence to the wrong address. I appreciate the news came at what was already a stressful time, but I think it would always have been upsetting for him. And I can see that Advantage allowed him extra time to appeal the decision and pay the amount it was claiming for. I appreciate this isn't the outcome Mr S was hoping for, but his additional comments haven't made a difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr S's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.