The complaint
Mr R and Miss S complain that they were given incorrect advice by Hood Group Limited (HGL) about whether a claim could be made under their contents insurance policy. Whilst it was a joint contents insurance policy, I've referred to Miss S throughout because it was her that suffered the loss and spoke to HGL about the policy cover. 
What happened
Mr R and Miss S purchased a contents insurance policy via HGL. Miss S' bag was unfortunately stolen whilst she was away from home, so she contacted HGL to see if she had any cover under her insurance policy so she could decide whether to make a claim. Miss S was told several times that she had cover, but it was later confirmed that she didn't have away from home cover, which would have been required to make a claim. Miss S complained to HGL about the incorrect advice she had been given and asked for compensation. As HGL didn't agree to pay compensation, Miss S approached the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said it wasn't in dispute that Miss S was given incorrect advice. He said this led to a loss of expectation and he recommended HGL pay 25 compensation for this. HGL agreed to pay Miss S the recommended compensation. Miss S didn't agree as she said 25 wasn't sufficient for the distress HGL had caused her. As an agreement couldn't be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss S (and Mr R), I've reached the same outcome as our investigator. It's not in dispute that Miss S was given incorrect and conflicting information about whether she had cover to claim or not. However, the incorrect advice doesn't change the fact that the claim wouldn't be covered as Miss S didn't have the required level of cover. So, the only difference here if things had gone as they should've and the correct advice was given, is that Miss S would have been aware sooner than she was that she wouldn't be able to claim. However, I recognise the incorrect advice would have resulted in a loss of expectation to Miss S. And whilst I acknowledge Miss S doesn't agree the 25 compensation recommended by the investigator is sufficient for this, I'm satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount in all the circumstances of the case, so that's what I'll be directing HGL to pay. 
My final decision
It's my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Hood Group Limited to: Pay 25 compensation Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R and Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2024.