The complaint
Mr H complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined cover for a motor insurance claim and voided his policy. 
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne. When his car was stolen, he tried to make a claim. Mulsanne said, when the policy was taken out, Mr H had answered the question it asked about his previous motoring convictions incorrectly. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to void the policy from its inception, and so decline cover for the claim he'd made. Mr H complained to Mulsanne, and when it rejected this complaint, brought it to our service. Our investigator thought Mulsanne had acted fairly, as it had shown the premium would have been higher if Mr H had correctly declared his motoring convictions. He believed Mr H's failure to disclose these convictions to have been reckless, which meant Mulsanne had acted fairly. Mr H doesn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman's decision. He says that quotations were obtained by a member of his staff, acting on his behalf, and accidentally omitted the convictions, and that it was never his intent to mislead Mulsanne. He believes it's unfair for Mulsanne to be permitted to void his policy and decline cover for the claim as it would leave him significantly out of pocket. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadn't made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Mulsanne Insurance thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. I've looked at the schedule of insurance and statement of fact sent to Mr H when the policy was taken out. This contained a statement that Mr H had no motoring convictions in the previous five years. Mulsanne says Mr H had been convicted of speeding twice in 2021 and once in 2023, before the policy started. Mr H says the policy was arranged online by a member of staff on his behalf. He doesn't seem to dispute that when they did this for him, they omitted to mention his speeding convictions. As they were acting on Mr H's behalf, it was his responsibility to ensure they provided accurate information to Mulsanne. I'm satisfied that his speeding convictions weren't notified, and so Mr H's employee (and by extension Mr H) didn't take reasonable care when doing so. In any case, Mr H was sent documents by Mulsanne which included the incorrect statement that he had no motoring convictions, and he didn't take reasonable care to properly check these and inform Mulsanne of the correct facts. Mulsanne has provided evidence that if Mr H had properly declared his motoring convictions, his premium would have been significantly higher. This means I'm satisfied Mr H's misrepresentation was a qualifying one. The misrepresentation had a material effect on the terms offered by Mulsanne. Mulsanne has said Mr H's misrepresentation was deliberate, because it had evidence that a number of quotations for the policy had been obtained, some of which included the disclosure of motoring convictions. It therefore considered he'd been seeking the cheapest quote by changing details including these convictions. Our investigator thought Mr H's misrepresentation could be better described as reckless. In any case, where a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the remedies available to Mulsanne set out in CIDRA are the same. I can understand why Mulsanne considered Mr H had deliberately misrepresented his motoring convictions. It had evidence of a number of quotes being obtained, with different details including the disclosure and non-disclosure of motoring convictions. Where an insurer has evidence to show that premium quotes are being manipulated by changing details in order to reduce the cost of the policy, then it's reasonable to conclude that a policyholder is doing so deliberately. The situation here is somewhat different. Mr H's account, and Mulsanne hasn't disputed it, is that one of his employees obtained the quotes and mistakenly omitted the motoring convictions on some of these. As that's the case, I don't believe Mulsanne could reasonably conclude Mr H had deliberately misrepresented the convictions. I am satisfied, however, that Mr H's misrepresentation was reckless. If he asks someone to obtain the quotations for him, there's a duty on him to ensure that they had properly disclosed all the material information and answered all the questions correctly before he entered into a contract of insurance. It would seem reasonable to say that the employee may not have been certain of the exact details or answers to the questions asked, and so it was imperative that Mr H check the answers given to ensure they were correct before he took out any policy, so that he could be sure he'd disclosed all the relevant information. By any account, he hasn't done that. Mr H had, I'm satisfied, adequate opportunity to check this before the policy cover started and should have noticed the important error in his policy documents that his motoring convictions hadn't been disclosed to Mulsanne. I think that his lack of care could reasonably said to have fallen below what someone should take in those circumstances, and so could fairly be described as reckless. As I'm satisfied Mr H's misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, I've looked at the actions Mulsanne can take in accordance with CIDRA. Where a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, an insurer is entitled to void a policy from inception, refuse all claims and has no duty to return the policyholder's premium. I agree that Mulsanne's actions in response to Mr H's reckless misrepresentation are in accordance with CIDRA. It's rightly observed that the policy is treated as if it never existed, and so Mr H's claim for the theft of his car isn't covered. 
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.