The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Royal & sun alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a claim on his Home Insurance policy 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I'll only summarise them here. Mr A notified RSA of a claim in February 2019 for subsidence to an extension on his house. RSA arranged for a contractor to handle the claim. The contractors visited the property to assess the damage and commenced monitoring of the movement. Mr A tells us that various efforts have been made to resolve the problem including removal of some trees, approaches to neighbours to cut down other trees and applying to the local authority for permission to remove trees that have a tree preservation order (TPO). Mr A also advises us some remedies have been proposed but not actioned including injecting resin to the foundations. Mr A says his property is deteriorating and is unhappy with the time taken to conclude the claim. And he wants RSA to resolve the underlying issue and repair the damage caused to his home in a timely manner. Mr A complained to RSA's contractors in March 2023. RSA didn't provide a Final Response Letter, but the contractors continued to progress the claim, albeit not to Mr A's satisfaction. In July 2023 Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the information Mr A and RSA provided. She concluded that she couldn't fairly say RSA had caused avoidable delays. She set out that subsidence claims can take a long time to resolve and acknowledged that by their nature they are distressing and inconvenient. Whilst not upholding the complaint she set out RSA should continue to take steps to progress the claim in a timely manner. Mr A's representative responded, highlighting specific examples of service failings, clarifying a number of points and expressed concern at lack of substantive progress on the repairs. Our investigator considered what Mr A's representative said and advised it didn't change the outcome she'd reached. Mr A asked that an Ombudsman decide his case 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ordinarily I'd consider matters up to the date of the final response from RSA, and therefore consider everything Mr A had complained about and that it had respond to. But in this case RSA didn't provide a final response letter so in this decision I'll consider issues up to 31 October 2023, the date our investigator issued her view. It might be that Mr A has ongoing concerns, and he can complain to RSA about these, and bring his complaint to this service if he's not satisfied with RSA's response. I cannot be involved in the ongoing management of the claim. It's not in dispute that the claim has taken several years and is still unresolved. The issue I have to decide is whether RSA has caused unnecessary delays. Subsidence claims can take a long time to reach a conclusion and I've considered whether RSA has provided a poor service and caused delays beyond those typically experienced. I can see it has implemented monitoring of the property and investigated the likely cause of the subsidence. It was initially thought trees in proximity of the extension were the cause. Issues have arisen over the ownership of some trees, and TPO's being in place for some. I've looked what Mr A and his representative have said. I appreciate Mr A has strong feelings on his case and if I don't mention a particular point he or his representative made it isn't because I haven't seen it or thought about it. It's just that I don't feel it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr A doesn't take this as a discourtesy, it's just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. Taking everything into account on this case I've reached the same outcome as our investigator. I can't fairly say that RSA have caused unnecessary delays. And I can see that it has investigated options to stabilise the property which is essential before lasting repairs can be effected. I do understand that this will have been a frustrating time for Mr A, and the damage to his property has meant he cannot enjoy it as he should. Whilst I don't uphold this complaint, I would urge RSA and its contractors to progress the claim in a timely manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I don't uphold this complaint Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2024. Martyn Tomkins Ombudsman