The complaint
Miss M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc settled the other driver's claim against her motor policy which she believes was fraudulent, following an accident. She has also complained that it failed to tell her this and that it failed to examine her or the other driver's cars to ascertain any damage. 
What happened
Miss M was involved in an accident in February 2022 where she said she lightly went into the back of the other driver's car. She said that the other driver agreed at the time no damage had been caused. She also told the other driver that she would pay for any dents or scratches. Miss M said a week later the other driver sent her a video showing much more extensive damage on a different part of the car to where she hit it also. The other driver then made a claim on Miss M's policy by August 2022 and AXA asked her for the details. She said she explained what happened and that she thought the claim from the other driver was fraudulent. She said she also told them they would need to inspect both the other driver's car and her car. Miss M didn't hear anything further from AXA and she noticed her premium increased slightly in December 2022 when her policy renewed. It appeared Miss M changed her car in February 2023. When Miss M's policy was due for renewal in December 2023, she said her renewal price increase from 1,400 to 6,000. Searching the market, she saw other providers' premiums were coming in at around 2,600. Miss M complained to AXA. AXA confirmed it did settle the other driver's claim and it admitted it didn't keep Miss M informed. So, it paid her 350 compensation for its failure to keep her so informed. Miss M was much more concerned at the increase in her premiums because of this claim going forwards, so she wasn't satisfied with this and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didn't think her complaint ought to be upheld. He also considered that AXA's compensation payment was fair. Miss M didn't agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint either. I'll now explain why. I thoroughly understand and appreciate that Miss M will be very disappointed with my decision as I can see from her correspondence with us, how distressed and upset she is about this matter. I should also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we don't act for consumers nor businesses, and neither do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, nor allow either party to direct the course of our investigations. Were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. It's also up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. Every motor policy permits insurers to settle any claim against their policyholders as they see fit. In Miss M's policy under the General Conditions section, it says the following: Defending or settling a claim Neither you nor any person insured by your policy must admit liability for any loss or damage or make any offer to pay any claim. We are entitled to: take over and defend or settle any claim in the name of any person, company or firm insured by your policy; take legal action in your name, or in the name of any person, company or firm insured by your policy, to get back any payment we make under your policy; and decide how to carry out these claims. ' There is nothing wrong with this clause and it's a standard clause across the motor insurance industry and permitted by the regulator namely the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The purpose of the clause is that motor insurers deal with claims daily and are therefore expert in knowing which claims to defend and which to settle. Given there is no dispute that Miss M hit the back of the other driver's car there would never be a situation where this accident wouldn't be held to be her fault. What Miss M disputes in the strongest terms is that the accident caused any damage to the other driver's car. I do completely understand that Miss M's point is that the amount of the damage she could have caused the other driver's car was nothing like what he claimed in the video to her and presumably in his insurer's claim to AXA too. From Miss M's point of view, the damage was extremely minor where there was nothing much to fix at all. She's firmly of the view the other driver's claim was fraudulent, consequently. However, I'm not able to comment on that. This service doesn't decide who is liable for causing an accident or indeed assess the amount the claim was worth. That is a matter for the insurers to decide or ultimately the Court. My role is to assess if AXA dealt with the claim against Miss M fairly and reasonably having regard to the policy terms and the industry standards in settling claims like these. The FCA and various insurance bodies and indeed the Courts have a variety of procedures and protocols around settling claims involving only vehicle damage and indeed in settling those claims on a fault or non-fault basis. All of them without exception are endeavouring to ensure the process is faster, incurs less time and indeed less costs too. Many insurers have set up other agreements or protocols together, one of them being RIPE which was set up in 2003 which is aimed at avoiding disputes between insurers about the quantification of claims. There are varying rules and guidance that insurers must adhere in dealing with claims under this type of agreement so that trust, honesty, and transparency between both insurers is integral. Both AXA and the other driver's insurer dealt with this claim under such a RIPE agreement according to AXA. That in effect meant neither car needed to be examined by the other insurer here. Such agreements are again clearly permitted by the regulator, the FCA, too. Miss M is also labouring under the fact that the amount of the other driver's claim is what increased her renewal premium so much. The claim paid by AXA was under 2,000. It makes no difference whether the other driver's claim was 1,000 or 10,000 or even 50,000 in underwriting terms. The amount of what her insurer AXA paid out is extremely unlikely to affect the extent of any premium increase. What really matters is whether Miss M's insurer was able to recover its outlay for the claim. Here because Miss M clearly did hit the rear of the other driver's car, there could never be a situation where it could recoup its outlay in settling the other driver's claim, given its indemnity to Miss M. That in turn means the claim is registered against Miss M's insurance record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange as a fault claim. This is key as it's the fact of the claim rather than what the claim was worth which affects premium amounts. Most insurers will increase the premium when there is such a claim registered against the applicant, usually only if it has occurred within the last five years. By how much depends on the underwriting guide of each insurer. Insurers have different risk appetites and different issues which they wish to insure or wish not to insure. This is part of their commercial discretion. Which they then detail in an underwriting guide which is always commercially sensitive so not published or shared. The underwriting guide is to ensure no consumer is singled out and treated differently to anyone else in a similar situation. I've never seen a situation where the actual amount of the claim is at all relevant. And in any event the amount paid by AXA wasn't substantial albeit that Miss M is firmly of the view that the incident she was involved in didn't cause the damage the other driver claimed. In this decision I can't comment on any of the other quotes Miss M obtained from other insurers as this decision is only against AXA. I also can't comment on what any of these insurers told Miss M or verify what they said was correct. It does appear initially that as Miss M wasn't aware AXA had paid any claim, she might not have disclosed this as a claim initially. Clearly however further down the line, she would have disclosed this claim. Another factor is that Miss M changed her car in February 2023 which again can affect premium prices, depending on how each insurer treats the make and model of the car plus that it's a new car to Miss M. All of these things can affect premium prices too. Premium prices are continually recalibrated also and can change daily. The fact remains that this accident occurred with Miss M going into the back of the other driver's car, leaving aside what if any damage occurred. That in itself affects the risk profile of Miss M. The other driver made a claim. Neither AXA nor Miss M could have stopped the other driver making this claim either. AXA knew from what Miss M told it that she had driven into the back of the other driver's car. That immediately puts Miss M at fault for any consequent damage. There would be no point in AXA trying to defend the liability aspect of this. AXA by law is also required to entertain that claim from the other driver. It used the approved means to settle that claim (given it could never say Miss M didn't drive into the back of the other driver's car) and it recorded it correctly. Settling a claim quickly in this way without inspecting either driver's car is permitted by all the regulations. Couple that, with the change of car, could mean different underwriting guidelines could have been applied than what were applied previously, to any application for motor insurance by Miss M. So consequently, I don't consider AXA did anything wrong here. What AXA did do wrong was to fail to explain any of this to Miss M or indeed to tell her a claim was now registered against her insurance record. It acknowledged this and paid her 350 compensation for this. I consider this amount is in line with our approach to compensation for these sorts of matters. Which means I consider it fair and reasonable in these circumstances. Our approach is also fully detailed on our website. This compensation payment is for the distress and upset caused to Miss M for AXA not explaining this claim was paid and indeed registered against her and nothing more. As under the industry rules, insurers like AXA have a duty to give consumers such as Miss M the information they need at the right time to allow them to make informed decisions. 
My final decision
So, for all these reasons, not withstanding that I understand why Miss M is unlikely to agree, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2024.