The complaint
Mr J complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited's (Admiral) offer to settle his claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J says he placed a number of items in his caravan in preparation for going away the following day. He says his caravan was parked away from home and in a locked compound. But his caravan was stolen that night together with the contents inside the caravan. Mr J made a claim under the contents section of his home insurance policy, and he says his claim amounted to between 4,000 to 5,000. Mr J says Admiral classed his caravan as a motor vehicle, so they limited the claim to 1,000. So, Mr J complained about Admiral's decision and about their handling of the claim which included providing conflicting information and asking him to provide evidence of his losses only to then inform him that he wasn't covered for these items. Admiral responded and explained, in relation to the policy limit, as Mr J's caravan is defined as a motor vehicle and the contents were stolen from there, any claim would be limited to 1,000. So they didn't uphold this part of the complaint. They accepted they had made errors though and said during a call with an agent, the call dropped and, while it wasn't possible to confirm how the call dropped, the agent didn't call Mr J back and Admiral would've expected a call to have been made. They accepted they should've confirmed the policy limit at the outset of the claim, and at no point should Mr J's claim have been declined. They said they should've confirmed the precise circumstances of the claim, including the location of the theft. And had they done so, this would've established the relevant aspects of the policy they could rely on and provide Mr J with a clear understanding of their decision and the reasoning. They said this failure had led to a number of delays in the claim. In recognition of their errors, they paid Mr J 150 compensation. Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. He thought Admiral hadn't acted unfairly in limiting Mr J's claim to 1,000 and that the 150 compensation paid was reasonable. Mr J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr J will be disappointed by this but I'll explain why I have made this decision. My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so I'll focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The main dispute here relates to Admiral's decision to limit Mr J's claim to 1,000. Mr J says Admiral have unfairly applied this policy limit and his claim should've been considered under a separate section which allows a policy limit of 5,000. My starting point is Mr J's home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and conditions and, under the section Cover away from your home' there's a heading which says, What is not covered'. This says, Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless the items are hidden from view in: the boot, a closed glove compartment, or a concealed luggage compartmentWe will not pay more than 1,000 for any theft from a motor vehicle. The policy then defines a motorised vehicle as, Any vehicle that is electrically or mechanically powered or assistedThis includes the followingcaravans There's no dispute Mr J's contents were stolen from his caravan while it was parked away from home. So, taking into account the policy definition and limitations I've referred to here, I can't say Admiral have acted unfairly in limiting Mr J's claim for his stolen contents to 1,000. I acknowledge Mr J says his caravan doesn't have a motor engine so can't be classed as a motorised vehicle. I understand Mr J's caravan doesn't have an engine and isn't able to travel unassisted, but the policy definition includes any vehicles that are electrically or mechanically assisted and this would include a caravan. I'm persuaded there's no ambiguity in the policy wording here as the definition includes specific reference to a caravan. I acknowledge Mr J refers to other definitions of a motor vehicle but, as the insurer here, Admiral are entitled to set out their own definition based on what risks they are/aren't prepared to accept. Mr J says the items which were stolen were out of view and in a locked caravan. I don't doubt Mr J's account here, and it appears by accepting the claim under this section, Admiral also accept this as well. But it still limits any claim settlement to 1,000. I can see Mr J's policy schedule refers to a limit of 5,000 for contents temporarily away from home' - and Mr J believes his claim should be considered under this section. The policy defines this type of cover as, Loss of or damage to contents, due to any contents insured risk, while they are temporarily away from your home, either in a family member's home or in a purpose-built storage facility anywhere in the world But, beside this section which sets out what is covered, it lists what isn't covered, and this says, stored in a caravan or temporary structure. I accept Mr J's contents were temporarily away from his home, but in view of the exclusion here relating to the contents being stored in a caravan, I can't say Admiral have acted unfairly in not considering Mr J's claim against this section of his policy. I can see Admiral did go further and considered where Mr J's caravan was stored and found this wasn't a commercial property for storing caravans. Claim notes provided by Admiral show that Mr J informed them it was a purpose-built facility but then explained he pays his friend 12 to store his caravan in their old workplace which is a garage. I can see Mr J has provided photos showing his caravan situated at this facility. This appears to be an open space and, while it might well be a locked compound, I'm not persuaded it's a purpose-built storage facility. So, this further persuades me that Admiral haven't acted unfairly here. There's no dispute about the remaining parts of Mr J's complaint. Admiral accept they got things wrong when a call between Mr J and an agent dropped but the agent didn't then call Mr J back. And Admiral accept they should've informed Mr J about the policy limit at the outset and they created confusion by giving Mr J conflicting information about whether his claim was accepted and what section of the policy his claim was being considered against. The only issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint is whether Admiral's offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. I think it's right that Admiral should compensate Mr J for the confusion, frustration and inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, I've looked at the errors by Admiral and what the impact of those errors have been.The information shows the claim continued for around seven weeks before Admiral confirmed the position in relation to what section of the policy applied and the claim limit. Between this time though it's clear Mr J was caused confusion and frustration when given multiple claim decisions, and even being informed at one point his claim was declined. I can also see it was frustrating for Mr J when he didn't receive a call back from the agent after a call dropped. There has also been inconvenience to Mr J in having to make arrangements to provide proof of purchase and proof of ownership for all items he was claiming. But, this could've been avoided had Admiral made the policy limit clear at the outset with Mr J only then needing to provide such evidence for at least 1,000 worth of his claimed items. So I can't say there would never have been a need to provide any proof, only that it wouldn't have needed to be to the extent Mr J had provided. So, taking into account the impact on Mr J and the duration of that impact, I think the 150 compensation paid by Admiral to Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can't say there was any wider or lasting impact on Mr J other than the confusion, frustration and inconvenience I've identified. So, given that Admiral have paid this compensation, I won't be asking them to take any further steps. I wish to reassure Mr J I've read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I haven't mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isn't because I haven't seen it or thought about it. It's just that I don't feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isn't intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 