The complaint
X and its director Mr H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
X is a company in the electrical business. The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a van, first registered in 2018 with a number including 68 (the van). For the year from early March 2023, X took out a mini-fleet insurance policy with Aviva. The policy covered the van and two other vans. Unfortunately in early September 2023, Mr H reported that a third party driver had hit and damaged the rear and offside of the van. The third party's insurer provided X with a hire van until at least mid-October 2023. Aviva said the van was beyond economic repair. Aviva said that the van's pre-accident value had been 14,438. 00. Mr H complained to Aviva that it was under-valuing the van. On about 20 December 2023, Aviva made a payment to X or Mr H. By a final response dated early January 2024, Aviva turned down the complaint. Mr H asked us to investigate. our investigator's opinion Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Aviva had valued the van at 13,693. 00 and its fittings at 745. 00 (a total of 14,438. 00). She thought that we would recommend that the vehicle should be valued at the highest of the trade guide figures, which she said was 14,660. 00. She recommended that Aviva should pay: 1. 14,660. 00 for the valuation of the van; and 2. the costs for the new bespoke fittings; and 3. signage costs. my provisional decision After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to X and Mr H and to Aviva on 15 May 2024. I summarise my findings: A more appropriate fair market valuation would be 14,660. 00. That will require a further payment of 222. 00 in addition to the interim payment based on Aviva's valuation of 14,438. 00. As X will have been out of pocket since the date of the interim payment, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay interest at our usual rate. Part of Aviva's response to the investigator's opinion was that it would be looking to pay the used cost for the company signwriting, the security locks and for the plywood racking/ false floor. This would amount to 1,672. 00 (excludes VAT). I regarded Aviva's offer of 1,672. 00 as going beyond what X was entitled to under the policy terms. Subject to any further information either from Mr H on behalf of X or from Aviva, my provisional decision was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay X: 1. a further 222. 00 for the van; and 2. simple interest on that further payment at a yearly rate of 8% from 20 December 2023 to the date of the further payment; and 3. 1,672. 00 for signwriting and fittings. Aviva accepted the provisional decision. Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that: His company removed no fittings from the van. The valuations in the guides are completely misleading. The valuation should be based on the date of the accident at dealership retail prices. The cost of the racking installation should be on a new for old basis. The racking, roof rack, pipe / tube carrier, van vault etc should be based on the most recent quote received for this to be reinstated, HIs company had a verbal quote of 500. 00 for signwriting. There was no written quote. He provided an old invoice from another van. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In 2021, X acquired the van at a cost of 16,130. 00 plus VAT. X installed fittings at a cost of about 2,744. 50 plus VAT (3,293. 40 including VAT). From the policy schedule dated March 2023, I see that the policy covered the van (under its 68 registration number) and two other vans of the same model. X changed the registration number of the van from the 68 number to a cherished number, similar to the other two vans. Aviva's policy terms included the following:Loss of or damage to your vehicle If your vehicle is lost, stolen or damaged, we will repair your vehicle unless you notify us that you want us to pay someone else to repair it; or replace your vehicle; or pay a cash amount equal to the loss or damage. The same cover also applies to accessories and spare parts relating to your vehicle whilst these are in or on your vehicle but not exceeding your estimate of value shown in the schedule. The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle immediately prior to the loss or damage. So the policy required Aviva to compensate the policyholder for the market value of their vehicle. The policy terms contained a definition of market value as follows: The cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, model, specification and condition. In assessing what constitutes a fair value we generally expect insurers to review relevant guides to motor valuations - which is also our starting point for most valuation complaints. I've looked at the available guides to assess whether Aviva's offer is fair and reasonable. I have reviewed CAP Market Value Manager, Glass's Market Value and Percayso guides, which gave retail values at the date of the loss as follows: CAP 12,295. 00 Cazoo/ Percayso 14,338. 00 Glass's 14,660. 00 All these valuations exclude VAT. Looking at the valuations produced by the guides, I'm not persuaded that Aviva's offer of 14,438. 00 was fair and reasonable. This is because the valuation guides have produced valuations which vary significantly from the lowest to the highest. The offer of 14,438. 00 sits in line with the lower values produced by these guides, but Aviva hasn't shown why this offer is fair, or that X could replace the van with a similar one for the amount offered. In these circumstances, to be satisfied that Aviva's offer represents a fair valuation, I'd expect to have been provided with other evidence (for example, adverts for vans for sale around the time of the loss / experts reports etc) to support that a lower valuation point is appropriate. And I'd need to be persuaded that that this evidence is relevant and persuasive (and more persuasive than evidence provided by the policyholder) before accepting that a lower valuation should be used. As Aviva hasn't provided enough other evidence to persuade me that a valuation in line with the higher valuation produced is inappropriate, and to avoid any detriment to X, the highest valuation produced by the guides is my starting point. I've considered Mr H's email to the third party's insurer in October 2023. I've also considered the advertisements to which he referred. Considering the overall variation of values produced, the lack of other evidence from Aviva and the advertisements supplied by the policyholder, I consider that a more appropriate fair market valuation would be 14,660. 00. That will require a further payment of 222. 00 in addition to the interim payment based on Aviva's valuation of 14,438. 00. As X will have been out of pocket since the date of the interim payment, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay interest at our usual rate. Mr H hasn't provided details of the cost of retention and reallocation of any cherished number plate. So I don't find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to compensate X for any such cost. Mr H has shown us an invoice for 318. 00 for signwriting on a van with a cherished number plate. However, the invoice is dated March 2020 and it wasn't for the van that is the subject matter of the complaint. As I've said, X had installed fittings to that van at a cost of about 2,744. 50 plus VAT (3,293. 40 including VAT). I find it likely that X would have to pay higher prices for similar signwriting and fitting of a replacement van. However, I wouldn't find it fair for an insurer to pay on a new for old basis. In any event the policy wording said that Aviva would pay no more than the market value of the van, which I consider meant the van with its signwriting and fittings. Mr H hasn't provided enough evidence to show that the market value was enhanced by the signwriting and fittings. So I don't find it proportionate to investigate what became of the fittings. Mr H's response to the provisional decision Mr H disagrees with the valuations in the guides, including the highest one. However, they are all retail valuations from the time of the accident. And Mr H's evidence isn't enough to persuade me that the highest guide valuation is too low. Aviva suggested that X had removed fittings from the van. Mr H denies that. He also says that the fittings and signwriting should be compensated on a new-for -old basis. However, the policy terms only provided cover up to the value of the van. I haven't found it proportionate to investigate what became of the fittings because Mr H hasn't provided enough evidence to show that the fittings enhanced the market value of the van. For these reasons, I regard Aviva's offer of 1,672. 00 as going beyond what X was entitled to under the policy terms. Keeping in mind the costs when they were incurred in 2021, I consider that Aviva's offer is fair and reasonable. Putting things right I will hold Aviva to its offer, but I won't direct it to do any more in relation to cherished plates, signwriting or fittings or any other losses. 