The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a personal income protection insurance policy by an appointed representative (AR) of Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB). 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I've simply set out a summary of what I think are the key events. In 2019, Mr P was advised to take out a personal income protection insurance policy by Mr R, who worked for an AR of MAB. The policy was underwritten by an insurer I'll call L. Unfortunately, in 2022, Mr P was signed-off work with work-related stress. And he made an incapacity claim on his policy. However, L declined the claim because it said it didn't think the claim was covered by the policy terms. In brief, it didn't consider work-related stress to be an illness. Mr P was very unhappy with L's decision. And he felt Mr R had mis-sold the policy to him. That's because Mr R had told him that sickness claims caused by stress would be covered. So he made a complaint to MAB. MAB accepted that Mr R had incorrectly told Mr P that claims caused by stress would be covered by the policy. And it recognised that Mr P would have been caused trouble, upset and disappointment as a result of the misinformation he'd been given. So it offered to pay Mr P 500 compensation. Mr P remained unhappy with MAB's position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told us that he's now found a new role which provides a higher level of sick pay. He also told us that he felt stuck with the policy because he'd since been diagnosed with a condition which could make taking out alternative cover significantly more expensive. Our investigator thought MAB had already made a fair offer to settle Mr P's complaint. Overall, she thought the advice Mr R had given Mr P had been broadly suitable for Mr P's needs and so she didn't think he'd been mis-sold the policy. She accepted that Mr R had given Mr P incorrect information about the sickness cover the policy provided. But she felt the compensation MAB had offered Mr P was fair to reflect the impact of this misinformation on him. Mr P disagreed. In brief, he said he wouldn't have taken the policy if he'd known it wouldn't cover everything and he'd have changed jobs. While he was off sick, he'd lost out on a significant amount of money. He considered that the misinformation he'd been given met the definition of mis-selling. The complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I'm very sorry to disappoint Mr P, I think MAB has already made a fair offer to settle his complaint and I'll explain why. Both parties agree that Mr R advised Mr P to take out this policy. That means Mr R needed to carry out an assessment of Mr P's demands and needs and to make a recommendation which was suitable for him. Mr R also needed to give Mr P enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that he could decide if it was right for him. I've listened carefully to the calls between Mr R and Mr P. I've also looked closely at the fact- find Mr R carried out and the post-sale information Mr P was sent. It's common ground that Mr P only received statutory sick pay (SSP) from his employer so in the event he was signed-off sick with an illness or injury, he'd only be entitled to SSP from day one. I'm satisfied that Mr P was looking for a policy that would provide cover for his lost income if he was unable to work due to an illness or an injury. So I think it was appropriate for Mr R to recommend an income protection insurance policy to Mr P. Much of the discussion between Mr R and Mr P focused on the price of the policy and the various options available to Mr P. Given the lack of any sick pay entitlement, a deferred period of one month might have been more suitable for Mr P. However, I'm satisfied that Mr R did explain the difference in cost between a one month deferred period and a 13-week deferred period and the implications for Mr P's income if he chose a 13-week deferred period. Having listened to the calls, it's clear Mr P did give this a great deal of thought and ultimately, he decided to go ahead with a 13-week deferred period. And I'm satisfied that Mr R seems to have recommended a policy with a premium which seemed affordable for Mr P, which also took into account his declared earned income. Mr R also went through medical questions with Mr P to ascertain whether he had any medical conditions L might want to know about and which could impact upon the level of cover it would provide. Given Mr P's broadly negative answers to those questions, the policy Mr R recommended seems to have been appropriate for Mr P. Given Mr P's identified lack of sick pay and his wish to protect his income, I'm not persuaded that the recommendation Mr R made was unsuitable for him. With that said, I do think that Mr R gave Mr P misleading information during the sale of this policy. During the sales call, Mr R told Mr P that the trigger for an income protection claim to be paid was being signed-off by a GP and that claims would continue to be paid while a GP continued to issue fit notes. He also put, in writing, that insurers act on a GP's instruction. In my experience, most, if not all, income protection insurers would require more medical evidence to support an incapacity claim than a GP's fit note. And income protection insurers generally carry out reviews throughout the life of a claim in order to be satisfied that a policyholder still meets the definition of incapacity. And I've seen evidence that Mr R told Mr P, in writing, that income protection pays out if you are signed off as unfit to work due to any condition physical or mental (and so includes stress, anxiety or depression etc. ) Again, in my experience, most income protection insurers don't generally cover incapacity claims which are caused by work-related stress in and of itself or work-related issues. Therefore, I do find that Mr R gave Mr P incorrect and misleading information during the sales process. And so I now need to explore what I think fair redress to reflect this error should be. Mr P says that if he'd known the policy wouldn't cover everything, he wouldn't have taken it out. But no income protection insurance policy covers every illness or eventuality and all policies are subject to their own terms and conditions. While Mr P has provided evidence from an online broker which advertises policies that do cover stress-related claims, it isn't clear how much these policies would cost or that they were available when Mr P took out this particular policy. Nor is it clear that the policies would have met Mr P's other needs. Given Mr P's identified concern that he had no sick pay other than SSP, I think he'd still have been likely to go ahead with taking out this income protection insurance policy even if he had known that not all sickness claims would automatically be covered on presentation of a fit note. As I've said, this policy seems to have been otherwise suitable for him especially as he doesn't appear to have indicated that he was suffering from a stress-related illness at the time of purchase. Mr P says that if he'd been given the right information, he would have changed jobs to take out a role which did include sick pay, instead of taking out the policy. But I don't think I could fairly find that this is most likely. That's because it seems to me that if this had been a real option for Mr P, he'd have most likely looked for a new job rather than taking out any income protection insurance policy. Overall then, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct MAB to refund the premiums Mr P paid for the policy, especially taking into account that the policy remained active. Instead, I agree with our investigator that fair redress in this case is for MAB to pay Mr P compensation to reflect its error and to reflect the disappointment and upset I think he was caused when he learned his claim wasn't covered, despite what he'd been told in 2019. And, bearing in mind the specific circumstances of this complaint, I'm satisfied that the 500 compensation MAB has already offered Mr P is fair, reasonable and proportionate to reflect its error and the likely impact of that mistake on him. So I find that MAB has already made a fair offer to settle this complaint and I'm not directing it to pay anything more. MAB must now pay Mr P 500 compensation if it hasn't already done so. 