The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy because her mobile phone is missing after Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) failed to return it to a safe location. Mrs A had mobile phone insurance for her and her family, underwritten by AGI, through her bank account. The policy was in Mrs A's name, so I'll refer only to her throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So, I've set out a summary of what I think are the key events. Mrs A made a claim for a damaged phone, which AGI accepted. The phone belonged to a family member but, for ease, I'll simply refer to the phone as if it belonged to Mrs A. AGI repaired the phone and sent it back to Mrs A using the address she'd provided, confirming delivery by email. Two weeks later, Mrs A contacted AGI to say she hadn't received the phone. AGI provided evidence from the courier to show that the driver was in the correct location at the time of delivery, confirmation that it had been delivered to reception, and a photo to show where the parcel was left. After asking reception to look for the parcel, Mrs A received an email from the porter to say that they couldn't find it. The porter said the photo showed the parcel had been left outside the reception door, but that didn't mean it was received by reception as it was shut. Further, the porter said hundreds of people walked through the building so the parcel wasn't left in a secure place. Mrs A complained to AGI because she thought it should've arranged a signed-for delivery and she said the photo which was blurred and didn't show the parcel address didn't confirm the courier had safely delivered her phone. To resolve her complaint, Mrs A wanted AGI to provide her with a replacement phone. AGI didn't uphold Mrs A's complaint. It said although the details on the parcel weren't clear in the photo, the rest of the evidence from the courier showed that the parcel was delivered. AGI said it sent the phone to the address Mrs A provided, but direct deliveries to the address were not possible. AGI said the courier left the parcel at the building reception in line with the accommodation instructions, of which Mrs A would've been aware. In addition to this, AGI said that since the Covid pandemic the courier no longer asked for signatures. Mrs A was unhappy with AGI's response. She said its evidence didn't prove it had delivered the parcel and it should've made sure the parcel was delivered to a person rather than being left outside a closed door. So she brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it was one which should be upheld. In summary, he said AGI followed the delivery rules for the address, but the parcel should've been handed over to an open reception, or left in a secure place. He didn't think the blurred photo provided confirmation of delivery. Therefore, our investigator thought AGI should replace the phone as if dealing with a lost phone claim, and he didn't think AGI should charge a second excess. Mrs A accepted our investigator's view, but AGI didn't agree. It thought the evidence showed the courier had delivered the phone and the reception would've been open to receive the parcel. I issued a provisional decision in May 2024 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs A's complaint. Here's what I said: provisional findings The claim itself is not disputed. Instead, the complaint is about the return of the mobile phone once it was repaired. The relevant regulator's rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they mustn't turn down claims unreasonably. So, to uphold Mrs A's complaint, I'd need to see evidence that persuades me AGI unfairly handled the return of her phone after completing repairs. The policy sets out the contract between Mrs A and AGI. However, I haven't seen anything in the policy to say how AGI would be expected to return the phone on completing the repair. Therefore, I must consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and what is more likely to have happened based on the available evidence. Having done so, I think the evidence lends greater weight to AGI's position, such that I can't reasonably say it did anything wrong. The evidence I've relied on is as follows: The time and location of the delivery, provided by the courier, matches the reception address and the delivery time recorded for Mrs A's parcel. The photo shows the parcel in front of what appears to be a white wall, along with other parcels. The wall by reception is white and the porter said the photo shows the parcel was left outside the reception door, which I understand is an internal door. Therefore, I'm satisfied it's more likely than not the parcel was left at reception. The name and full address on the parcel isn't clear. However, I can see that the postcode matches that provided by Mrs A. The parcel was delivered during reception opening hours. Mrs A received email confirmation that the parcel was delivered, and she hasn't said any of the delivery details are different to those provided by the courier. Based on this evidence, I think it's reasonable to say AGI delivered the phone to the reception of the address Mrs A provided. I've thought about what Mrs A said in respect of the requirement for a signature and her claim that the phone wasn't delivered to a secure place. AGI said the courier doesn't ask for signatures, and I think that's understandable for the reasons it gave. The photo doesn't show clearly where the parcel was left, but as the porter confirmed it was at reception, and the courier logged delivery as to reception, I see no reason to doubt that. The porter told Mrs A the reception was shut. Given the delivery was during opening hours, I asked for further information about this. Mrs A said the porter would leave the reception locked if attendance was required elsewhere in the building. I accept that may be the case, but I haven't seen any evidence to show that's what happened on the delivery date and at that time. The porter provided the information two weeks after the parcel was delivered so I can't reasonably say the recollection offers greater evidential weight than the courier's record made at the time of delivery. The final point is that Mrs A didn't complain to AGI until two weeks after the delivery date. She explained that there are a couple of porters who cover the reception in shifts, and she wanted to check with each of them that the phone hadn't been moved to a safe location. Mrs A also explained that she works long hours and it was the first opportunity she had to contact AGI. I understand Mrs A would've wanted to be sure before she made her complaint to AGI. However, I think two weeks is a long time to wait given she'd had confirmation of delivery, yet the parcel wasn't available at reception on that same day. Overall, the evidence currently available indicates that AGI sent the phone back to Mrs A using the address she provided, the courier recorded delivery to the reception during opening hours, and emailed Mrs A to confirm delivery. I have no reason to doubt that the phone is missing. But I can't reasonably say AGI treated Mrs A unfairly when it refused to replace the phone. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me to consider before I reached a final decision. Neither Mrs A nor AGI responded. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any response from Mrs A or AGI I looked at the evidence again. Having done so, I've decided to not uphold Mrs A's complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. While I have no reason to doubt that Mrs A didn't receive the phone, I can't reasonably hold AGI responsible for it once its courier delivered the parcel and confirmed delivery to the correct location. To uphold Mrs A's complaint, I'd need to have seen evidence that, more likely than not, AGI did something wrong when it returned the phone. But the evidence persuades me that AGI returned the phone correctly and notified Mrs A of its delivery. Therefore, I see no reason to require anything of AGI. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I don't uphold Mrs A's complaint, and I make no requirement of Assurant General Insurance Limited in respect of this matter. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.