The complaint
Mr G complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc's handling of a claim made under a block property investors policy. Any reference to AXA includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
Mr G is a leaseholder of a flat, which is covered by a block property investors policy underwritten by AXA. As the block policy covers damage to Mr G's flat, it's partly for his benefit. There was a water leak into Mr G's flat from the property above, and a claim was made. AXA accepted the claim and arranged for strip out works and drying to take place. Mr G's representative complained to AXA about the way it had handled the claim. He thought there had been too many delays and AXA had provided a poor service. AXA issued its final response on the complaint on 29 August 2023. It accepted there had been some failings in its handling of the claim, and it offered Mr G 500 compensation for this. Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service via his representative. Our investigator looked into things, and agreed there had been some delays and poor communication from AXA. However, she thought the compensation offered by AXA had been reasonable. Mr G's representative didn't accept our investigator's findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've only considered what has happened up to the date of AXA's final response to the complaint dated 29 August 2023. I understand Mr G is also unhappy with AXA's handling of the claim after this date, and has received a new final response letter from AXA on the matter. We've explained to Mr G's representative that we may be able consider this under a new complaint (though timescales do apply). Having reviewed what happened up to 29 August 2023, it's apparent that AXA caused delays. Most of the delay was due to a lack of communication between AXA's contractors as more than one party was involved. Though there were also delays with the strip out works and drying because the contractor hadn't realised the kitchen units needed to be taken out. Although attempts had been made to dry the kitchen walls, mould was then found. I understand Mr G's representative had to point this out to the contractor. AXA accepted that its handling of the claim was poor and offered Mr G 500 compensation. I've thought about the impact the matter had on Mr G to decide whether this offer was reasonable. Mr G doesn't live at the property, but he says the delays meant he had to cancel his travel plans because he uses the property as a base. Mr G hasn't provided any evidence to show that he had existing travel plans which had to be cancelled or rearranged because of the delays. So I don't think he's experienced any financial loss here. Though I appreciate he would have been caused inconvenience by the delays if he had intended to travel and use the property. He also says he was interested in selling the property, but had to put off doing so. Whilst there would have always been some disruption caused by the leak and repairs, there were some avoidable delays caused by AXA, so I can understand why Mr G was frustrated by this if he wanted to sell the property. However, in the round I'm satisfied the 500 compensation was reasonable and reflected the level of inconvenience caused to Mr G by the matter. Mr G's representative says the claim has affected his personal wellbeing, and he's had to contact AXA countless times about the matter. I'm sorry to hear that, but as Mr G's representative isn't an eligible complainant under our rules, I can't take into account any impact to him when considering appropriate compensation. Mr G has raised concerns about the quality of repairs carried out by AXA's contractors. However, when AXA issued its final response on the complaint, the repairs hadn't started by that point. So Mr G should raise any concerns he has about the repairs directly with AXA in the first instance if he hasn't already done so. Finally, Mr G's representative says a family member was living at the property, but had to move out when the leak happened. I don't know if that person was paying rent, though I understand AXA told Mr G the policy doesn't cover loss of rental income. If Mr G is unhappy about this or thinks AXA should have covered the costs of alternative accommodation for that family member, again he should raise this with AXA in the first instance. 
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already made an offer to pay 500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay 500 if it hasn't already done so*. *AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2024. Chantelle Hurn-Ryan Ombudsman