The complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K contacted AXA to make a claim when he damaged his mobile phone by dropping it on his kitchen floor. AXA declined the claim because it said Mr K hadn't specified his phone on the policy and he needed to do so for there to be cover in place. Mr K complained because he said the policy wording was unclear. When AXA replied, it provided details of the sales process and said it was evident that to cover a mobile phone for accidental damage that it needed to be specified with the make and model. Mr K hadn't specified the phone, so it said it was correct to decline the claim. So, Mr K complained to this Service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He said, based on the policy wording, an average consumer would believe their mobile phone was covered under the policy without specifying the phone. He said AXA should pay the claim and pay Mr K 100 compensation. AXA didn't agree that the policy wording was unclear or that it should settle the claim. So, the complaint was referred to me. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why. Mr K bought the policy online. I've looked at the information AXA provided to show the online sales process. I can see there was a question about extending cover for specific items such as electronic gadgets, including mobile phones, or high-risk items. It said please note you won't be covered for these items unless you add the extended cover. The Quick guide to specific items provided more detail on this part of the sales process. It said mobile phones worth up to 1,000 were covered as standard in the home for all perils except accidental damage. So, I think the wording in this part of the sales process was inconsistent and unclear. The question itself said there was no cover at all for a mobile phone unless it was specified. However, the accompanying notes explained that Contents cover was automatically provided where the phone cost up to 1,000. I'm aware it said this didn't include accidental damage. It's my understanding that Mr K's phone cost under 1,000. He bought the policy without specifying his mobile phone. So, I've also looked at the policy documents he was provided with to see what these said about mobile phones. The policy schedule said Mr K had Contents and Contents Accidental Damage cover and that he hadn't specified any items. It also said: BIKES, GADGETS AND HIGH RISK ITEMS: Our Contents cover (Section 2) includes cover within the Home for: Electronic Gadgets (excluding mobile phones) worth less than 350 individually (e. g. Smart watches, tablets, laptops, etc. ) Mobile phones worth less than 1,001 individually If you have items worth more than the above limits or if you'd like to protect them away from the home, you'll need to specify them otherwise they're not covered. So, I note this wording said that items needed to be specified to be covered outside the home. But it didn't say this was also the case if Mr K wanted the phone to be covered for accidental damage. I've also read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). In the section on restrictions on cover, it said: Certain items need to be specified if they are to be covered inside the home: high risk items (1,500 or more); mobile phones (1,001 or more); electronic gadgets (350 or more); and bikes (350 or more). Further, these type of items need to be specified, irrespective of item value, for cover away from the home (this includes within the garden, driveway and outbuildings as well as away from the UK) So, again, this said items needed to be specified if they were worth more than 1,000 or for cover away from the home. But it didn't say phones needed to be specified on the policy for accidental damage cover to be available. I've also looked at the policy booklet. The Definitions section explained that Contents included mobile phones individually worth less than 1,001. The section on Contents (Inside the Home) explained what wasn't covered. This included mobile phones worth 1,001 or more. It said these could be covered separately under Section 5 of the policy, Specified Items (Inside the Home). I've also looked at Section 2 (C) which explained the Full Accidental Damage for Contents cover. This said it provided comprehensive accidental damage cover for Contents. However, there was an exclusion for Electronic Gadgets or Bikes, which it said could be covered separately under Section 5. So, I've thought about this. Throughout the policy it explained mobile phones under 1,001 were covered as Contents in the home without needing to be specified. Although the section on Full Accidental Damage for Contents said Electronic Gadgets weren't covered, I think this lacked sufficient detail to be easily understood as also referring to mobile phones. At various points in the policy documents, including in the IPID, the wording differentiated between electronic gadgets and mobile phones and explained that different cover applied to each. In the accidental damage section, there was no explicit reference to mobile phones. So, in this instance, a policyholder would need to realise that the absence of a reference to mobile phones meant they needed to check the definition of an electronic gadget, which said it included mobile phones, rather than it meaning the exclusion didn't apply to mobile phones. Overall, I don't think the policy was clearly written in a way that could be easily understood. I don't think it clearly explained that a mobile phone needed to be specified for accidental damage cover to apply, regardless of the phone's value. It was for AXA to ensure that the policy terms and conditions were clear. I think it's reasonable for me to say that an average person would think they had cover within the home for a mobile phone worth less than 1,001 as standard, including for accidental damage. Putting things right As a result, I think AXA needs to settle the claim for Mr K's mobile phone as though he had accidental damage cover in place for it. I also think Mr K has been caused inconvenience by the way AXA has dealt with his claim. So, I think AXA should pay Mr K 100 compensation to recognise this. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc: To settle Mr K's claim for accidental damage to his mobile phone as though he had cover in place. Pay Mr K 100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2024. Louise O'Sullivan Ombudsman