The complaint
Miss W complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim she made under her home insurance policy. Covea is the underwriter of this policy i. e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agents. As Covea has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Covea includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In September 2023, Miss W made a claim under her home insurance policy with Covea. She said she'd used a steam mop on her wooden floor, and it had damaged the finish of the surface in her lounge / diner. She said it had also burnt through the finish where she had stored it in the utility area. A few days later, Covea told Miss W it would be declining her claim because the damage had occurred during the process of cleaning, which was excluded under the terms of the policy. Miss W disagreed with Covea's decision and requested for it to be reviewed. Covea agreed to send a contractor to visit to establish if the claim could be covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. A contractor visited a few days later but said they couldn't do the work as skirting boards would need to be removed. Covea arranged for a building surveyor to review the damage. Miss W says the building surveyor told her the damage was caused by water, which she disputed. She sent Covea a report from a restoration company to confirm the marks were burn marks, which she said were caused by the steam mop being placed in the room. Covea said it had reviewed the information Miss W had provided but it was maintaining the declinature due to the exclusion. So, Miss W asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didn't think Miss W's complaint should be upheld. She thought Covea had acted fairly in declining the claim. Miss W disagreed with our investigator's outcome. She said she was appealing on the basis it was accidental damage for the storage of the mop which was not cleaning. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold Miss W's complaint. I'll explain why. Miss W believes her claim should be covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. Accidental damage is defined as unexpected physical damage caused suddenly by an identifiable external means and is not deliberate. In declining Miss W's claim Covea has referred to a policy exclusion which says loss or damage caused by or in the process of cleaning, maintenance, repair, dismantling, restoring, altering, dyeing or washing isn't covered. There is also a general policy exclusion for any loss or damage caused by Any process of cleaning, repair or alteration, damage by insects, electrical or mechanical failure or breakdown, faulty design, materials or workmanship. The pictures Miss W has provided show damage in several areas of her floor. She says some of these marks occurred when she was using her new steam mop and there is another area of the floor which was burnt when she stored the mop. I appreciate Miss W strongly believes her claim should be covered because part of the damage occurred when she stored the mop. However, the intention of the exclusion was to exclude damage caused to items by the use of cleaning products or machines. In this case, the damage happened when the hot mop was placed down at the end of cleaning the floor. So, I'm not persuaded this was a separate event to cleaning the floor. I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss W, but I think Covea's decision to decline her claim was fair and reasonable, in line with the policy's terms and conditions. So, I don't require it to do anything further. 