The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their home emergency insurer Aviva Insurance Limited because they believe it failed to complete a repair which led to damage occurring. 
What happened
There was a leak from the guest toilet in Mr and Mrs R's home in January 2022. They made a claim and were told a new cistern was needed with an appointment booked. In the meantime another engineer attended and told Mr and Mrs R he'd been able to fix the problem after all. Mrs R, therefore cancelled the further appointment. Over the subsequent months the guest bathroom wasn't used. In early June 2023 family came to stay with Mr and Mrs R and the toilet in the guest bathroom was in constant use. They noted a damp patch appear on the ceiling. They contacted Aviva, an engineer attended and was told of what had happened the year before. The engineer removed and refitted the cistern and replaced a separate pipe which he had found to be wet. A few weeks later, following a further visit from family members, who used that toilet, more damage was noted to the ceiling. An engineer attended again, identifying a leak on a pipe in the base of the toilet. He felt this had caused the damage to the ceiling below. Mr and Mrs R asked him to check the cistern but he didn't. Mr and Mrs R checked the toilet again after the engineer left and found water. When an engineer attended again, he found an issue with the cistern, later acknowledging this had been missed previously. Aviva replaced the cistern. Mr and Mrs R complained to Aviva. They wanted it to at least cover the damage repair as they felt this had all stemmed from the cistern not being replaced. Aviva said it was unlikely the damage was related to its work in 2022 as no damage had occurred for a year. It said the pipe in the base of the toilet had been the cause of the damage in 2023, evidenced by the fact that the majority of damage only occurred at the time the pipe issue was identified. With it highlighting that the pipe was a new issue in July 2023, with no further damage occurring once it was fixed. Mr and Mrs R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator clarified with Mr and Mrs R that it had cost them 175 to fix the damage. She felt Aviva hadn't completed the necessary cistern replacement in 2022, which was still ultimately required in 2023. She acknowledged Aviva's arguments about the new leak but felt it was most likely the damage could have been avoided. She felt Aviva should reimburse Mr and Mrs R's outlay for fixing it plus 8% interest. She also felt 100 compensation was fairly and reasonably due. Aviva objected. It maintained that the cistern issue had not caused damage. It said it was the pipe which was the cause of damage, which wasn't related to its previous work, and the property would, therefore, always have suffered damage. The complaint
was referred for an Ombudsman's decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I'm minded to find the same as our Investigator I think Aviva is reasonably responsible for this damage and the upset caused. I've set out my findings below. The policy in question offers help to resolve certain emergency situations, such as leaks. So it is not a policy which offers cover in the event of damage occurring to fixtures and fittings as a result of water leaks. In this case Aviva's liability under the policy was to fix the leak. But if in carrying out that work damage occurred as a result of Aviva doing something wrong, or because it didn't do something it should have done, then it wouldn't be fair for the policyholder to either bear the cost of fixing that or to suffer the upset caused. Having seen Aviva's file it very clearly shows that in 2022 the cistern was to be replaced. I know that Mrs R called to cancel an appointment, which Aviva has told us was the cistern replacement appointment. But it is also very clear, from a phone call recording at that time, that Mr and Mrs R were told by an attending engineer, an agent of Aviva, that he had fixed the problem without the need for the cistern to be replaced. Mr and Mrs R had no reason to doubt that. I can also see from Aviva's file that when the guest bathroom was next used in 2023, a leak occurred again. And Aviva's files do show some damp on the ceiling from the point of its first attendance at that time in June 2023. Aviva's file shows the cistern was only removed and refitted then, that damage got worse, with another leak being found during a second visit. But of note from Aviva's files is that it was only during a third visit that the cistern was found to need replacing and its engineer acknowledges that the problem with the cistern was missed in both previous visits in 2023. So Aviva failed to replace the cistern in 2022, and it further twice missed the problem in 2023. All I have to think about then really is whether these errors by Aviva most likely caused damage to occur to the property. I think they did. Mr and Mr R reported damage to the ceiling in 2022, which they subsequently redecorated. A close inspection of Aviva's photos from the first visit in June 2023 does show some damage. I know Aviva has sought to argue no damage can be seen. But I can see what looks like water marks in the same area as where more significant damage can be seen in photos taken during the second 2023 visit. Which followed further use of the toilet by guests. I also note that in an internal email Aviva acknowledges that a proportion of the damage has likely resulted from its failure to replace the cistern at an earlier opportunity. I accept that no further damage occurred after the base pipe was fixed. But also that the leak from the cistern only occurred when the toilet was used. I further accept Mr and Mrs R's report of finding that there was still an issue with the cistern shortly after the second 2023 visit and that the toilet was not used in the interim before Aviva reattended and then replaced the cistern. I've considered whether the leak from the base pipe might mean damage would have occurred anyway. But Aviva hasn't provided any clear persuasive evidence of this. And I bear in mind that even if the pipe would have leaked into the same area, the damage coming through the ceiling below may not have occurred if the area in between wasn't already soaked by the leak Aviva had failed to fix. I also bear in mind that Mr and Mrs R have clearly not sought to gain from this scenario. Their cost to fix the damage was 175. I think that's a reasonable sum given some wallpapering was affected and they paid someone to do the work. Given everything I've seen, I don't think it's fair that they bear this cost. I'm satisfied that Aviva failed to complete work it should have completed and that its most likely that this cost for Mr and Mrs R arose as a result of that failure. I'm also satisfied that this situation was frustrating and worrying for Mr and Mrs R. They had to make the second claim in 2023, undergo further visits from Aviva as well as arrange for repair of the water damage. I also note that on one visit the engineer was late. I'm satisfied that 100 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. Putting things right I require Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs R: 175 to reimburse their cost to repair damage, plus interest* from the date work was paid for until the settlement is made. 100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. *Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it's taken off. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.