The complaint
Mr L says Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wrongly concluded that he'd made a fraudulent theft claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L says he returned home in April 2023 to find his car had been stolen from outside his home. During Admiral's investigation into the claim, he told it he only had one car key, as the other had been lost abroad nine months earlier. He said he hadn't reported it to Admiral as there was no requirement or need to do so. Admiral declined the claim and cancelled the policy in October 2023. It said an independent firm of master locksmiths (firm B') had examined the key Mr L supplied. The data they recovered from it showed the key was last used in January 2023. The mileage recorded on it was around 500 miles less than that noted at the car's MOT inspection two days before the theft. Admiral said it thought Mr L's version of events was untrue and that an original key had been used to facilitate the theft. It said Mr L had breached a policy term requiring him to answer all questions honestly and not provide false, exaggerated, or misrepresented information. It also said Mr L had taken no steps to safeguard the car after the key was lost. Mr L said the missing key was lost hundreds of miles away many months previously and that the other key was locked in his home at the time of the theft. He said the car could have been stolen using an electronic device, but that Admiral hadn't considered that possibility. And he insisted that the technology in the key must have failed, as it didn't record that he'd used it to drive the car until the day before the theft. One of our investigators reviewed Mr L's complaint. She thought it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on firm B's report. It had confirmed that the technology in the key had been checked electronically and that all functions were working. So Admiral was faced with a significant discrepancy in the mileage and with the key's last date of use that couldn't be explained. The investigator thought it was reasonable for it to decide that Mr L had misrepresented the claim. She didn't think he'd recognised there was a risk to the car when the key was lost, so she said he hadn't failed to take reasonable measures to protect it. Mr L provided extensive additional comments. Briefly, in addition to the points he'd already made, he said Admiral had ignored the content of the report supplied to it by a firm of external investigators, as their report undermined Admiral's decision. He said the external investigator who interviewed him had said there was no evidence of fraud and that the claim should have been settled. Mr L then referred to the wording of previous ombudsman decisions in cases where fraud was alleged by an insurer. He pointed out that we'd said there must be strong evidence on which to base such allegations. He said the discrepancy in the mileage was due to the fact that he'd driven the car after the key stopped recording properly. And he said there was no evidence that a key was used to steal the car. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I won't comment on every point that has been made by the parties. Although I've read everything on the file, I'll concentrate on what I think are the main issues. Impact of Admiral's decision / Mr L's motivation Mr L told us that when the key was lost abroad, he didn't think it was a security risk given that the car wouldn't be in that location for long. A consumer who doesn't recognise a risk to their vehicle can't be said to have failed to take reasonable steps to protect it. So I don't think Admiral can rely on the policy term about safeguarding vehicles in this case. Mr L is far more concerned about being accused of fraudulent behaviour. He has explained the practical and emotional impact on him so far of having his name put on a fraud register. He's also set out in some detail the reasons why he had nothing to gain by facilitating the theft of his car - and a great deal to lose. In particular, he says the car was bought fairly recently, mainly to take his wife to hospital appointments, so its loss has hit them hard. Mr L seems to think Admiral believes he's a thief - or that he played a part in the theft at least (perhaps by assisting another party to take the car). Mr L says he has an impeccable reputation and that it makes no sense that he'd steal the car or arrange for someone else to do so. I agree that makes no sense in this case. But I don't think Admiral has suggested that Mr L is a thief or that he assisted someone in a crime. Admiral believes it's more likely than not that the theft was carried out using one of the car's two original keys. Only one of them was supplied to it by Mr L. So the other key could have been used in the theft. That would mean it wasn't lost - as reported by Mr L - but it wouldn't mean that he assisted in the theft, or that he had any knowledge of it. The key could have been left in the car accidentally, for example. Admiral hasn't set out this possible scenario and it doesn't have to prove how the car was taken. But in my opinion, it's one explanation for what could have happened. I think the question is whether Admiral had strong enough evidence on which to decide it was more likely than not that the incident didn't happen as reported by Mr L and that he acted dishonestly. Expert key analysis The theft of cars using electronic devices is now common, so I can see why Mr L raised it as a possibility, but I don't think it's correct for him to say that Admiral didn't consider it. Admiral relied on the report from firm B, which has been provided to us. Firm B commented on the likelihood of the car having been stolen using an electronic device. It said the particular security systems on the make and model of Mr L's car are such that to their knowledge there have been no reports of them being overcome by thieves. Mr L hasn't supplied any evidence to the contrary. Although firm B's view doesn't mean the car definitely couldn't have been taken using an electronic device, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decide it wasn't the most likely explanation in this case having taken into account the other available evidence. In my opinion, the discrepancy arising from firm B's electronic analysis of the data in the key is a highly significant issue. If the key's last date of use and the mileage recorded on it are correct, the only way Mr L could have driven the car from January 2023 to April 2023 would have been by using the key he told Admiral was lost nine months before the theft. Mr L is adamant that the recording on the key isn't accurate. But firm B confirmed that all the key's functions were checked and were fully operational. Mr L agrees that the key was working as far as he knew. It allowed him to lock / unlock the car, and to drive it normally, yet in his opinion, the recorded mileage / last date of use functions failed nonetheless. Mr L has simply dismissed the fact that these failures weren't picked up when checks were carried out by an expert, using sophisticated electronic investigation devices. Given that Mr L had no evidence to the contrary, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the detailed technical report provided by an independent firm, and to conclude that Mr L didn't have a factual basis for challenging it. The external investigator's report Mr L thinks Admiral ignored the information in the report submitted to it by the independent investigator it instructed, as he assumes it was in his favour. Had that been the case, I'd have expected Admiral to take it into account. But I've read the report, and despite what the investigator may have said to Mr L, he didn't tell Admiral he thought there was no evidence of fraud, or that the claim should have been paid. The investigator concluded it was unlikely the key provided to Admiral by Mr L was the last one used with the car, and that it was stolen using a legitimate (original) key. That's only the investigator's opinion, but the report didn't contain any comment from him that supported Mr L's claim. Admiral could only base its view on the content of the investigator's report (plus firm B's report) rather than on comments reported to it by Mr L that can't be evidenced. Previous ombudsman decisions / strong evidence In terms of the previous ombudsman decisions Mr L has referred to, each case is decided on its own facts, but in all complaints where fraud is an issue we expect an insurer to have strong evidence pointing to dishonest behaviour. In this case, there's no direct evidence (such as CCTV coverage) to show how the car was stolen. It might have been possible to steal it using an electronic device. Admiral doesn't know what happened, so it had to decide what was more likely than not to have happened. I think it may well have reached a different conclusion had one of the original keys been missing, as long as there was no discrepancy about the remaining key's last date of use. But Mr L hasn't been able to show that the data on the key isn't accurate and an independent firm specialising in the technical analysis of keys is confident that it is. In summary In my opinion, the evidence Admiral gathered from firm B's report in particular was strong enough for it to conclude it was more likely than not that the theft didn't occur in the way Mr L said it did. And taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for it to decide, on the balance of probabilities, that he must have provided false or misleading information to it. I know Mr L will be very disappointed with my decision. I'm truly sorry about the difficulties he and his wife have experienced so far without a car. I know they'll continue to face the consequences of the policy having been cancelled and of Mr L's name being on a fraud register. But as I don't think Admiral acted unreasonably, I can't uphold his complaint. 