The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did following a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N has a dispute with the insurer of an overseas holiday home he owns. He sought assistance under a legal expenses policy with DAS (the policy is in his father's name but covers the policyholder and any member of their family who always lives with them). Mr N has made previous complaints about delay in progressing the claim and accepted compensation DAS offered in respect of the most recent of those in March 2023. At the end of March panel solicitors said they had contacted the international lawyers who would be acting on the claim for details of their charges. In early May the panel firm confirmed to DAS that the claim had reasonable prospects of success and asked for instructions. Mr N contacted DAS at the start of June to check on progress. DAS responded a few days later and said it had authorised the panel firm to progress on an hourly rate basis though was querying the position in relation to cost recovery. The panel firm provided a response in mid June. A few days later Mr N contacted DAS and asked if proceedings could be put on hold as he'd found his own overseas solicitor who was cheaper than the firm DAS was proposing to use. On 23 June Mr N said that solicitor had already been instructed because he was concerned about his claim being time barred. And that solicitor had filed court papers on 6 June. He wanted DAS to appoint them to progress the claim and to pay the costs they'd incurred in initiating court proceedings. As DAS didn't respond to Mr N's request he made a further complaint in mid August and then referred the matter to us. DAS told us it didn't think it should be responsible for Mr N's costs (which amount to around 5,000) as those had been incurred without its consent and it didn't think it was necessary to appoint an alternative firm. And it didn't think this had saved cost (as Mr N argued) because it had already paid the panel firm and the international lawyers to deal with the matter. But it accepted there had been further delays for which it was responsible and offered to pay Mr N 100 to recognise the impact of that on him. In her most recent view our investigator noted Mr N hadn't made any mention of appointing his own solicitors in his contact with DAS prior to doing so. And so DAS hadn't had any involvement with this process. Nor had he raised any concerns with it about his claim becoming time barred. She didn't think DAS had acted unfairly in declining to cover the costs he incurred. But she agreed there had been further delays by DAS and thought it should pay a total of 250 in relation to this. Mr N accepted her view on the compensation payment but didn't agree in relation to the costs. In summary he said: In line with the policy wording and the relevant law he had the right to choose his own lawyer without the need for consent or authorisation from DAS. And the costs that lawyer incurred were ones that DAS had already authorised and he didn't believe they were ones that it had paid to the panel firm (or the international lawyers). So he didn't think there would be any prejudice to DAS if it was required to cover the costs he'd paid; if anything there would be a saving over the costs it had already agreed to cover as the amounts charged by his own lawyer were lower. Even if he had informed DAS at the start of June that he wanted to appoint his own lawyer he didn't think the position would have been any different. There was an urgent need to issue the claim so even if DAS had responded promptly (which he thought was unlikely) he would still have needed to instruct his own lawyer to ensure the claim was made in time. And he said he suffered from a neurodevelopmental condition (which DAS was aware of) which could cause him to act impulsively. That and the acknowledged delays by DAS in relation to this claim had led him to act as he did. Given that he thought DAS was treating him unfavourably (taking into account the Equality Act 2010) in not agreeing to cover the costs he'd incurred. He also said DAS hadn't reimbursed further expenses from his own lawyer which had been brought to its attention in November 2023. I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said: The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably. I've looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr N's policy. As DAS have accepted the claim Mr N made (I understand under the Contract Disputes' section of the policy) I haven't needed to consider whether his claim is one that his policy should have covered. And I understand during the period which I'm considering Mr N's claim had reached the point where court proceedings were necessary. So, as Mr N correctly says, under the terms of his policy (and the relevant law) he did have the right to appoint his own solicitor to progress it. However, the cover offered by the policy is for costs and expenses' for the insured incidents it contains. And the policy defines costs and expenses as all reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the appointed representative in accordance with the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment. I understand those terms say You must seek our prior agreement before incurring each and every Expense relating to the Claim, including but not limited to barrister and expert fees And the policy says In the event of a claim, if you decide not to use the services of a preferred law firm, you will be responsible for any costs that fall outside the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment and these will not be paid by us. But in this case the lawyer Mr N appointed hadn't agreed to DAS's Standard Terms of Appointment and clearly didn't seek authorisation from it prior to issuing court proceedings (and incurring the expenses related to this). So I think DAS has correctly concluded the costs Mr N incurred in appointing his own lawyer without its agreement aren't ones his policy covers. However, our rules also require me to consider what's fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. And I think relevant here is whether Mr N's decision has adversely affected (prejudiced) DAS's position. His argument is that it hasn't because the costs he incurred (and which he wants DAS to reimburse) were ones that it had already agreed in principle to pay to progress his claim and the amount his lawyer charged was less than the lawyers DAS was intending to use would have charged. DAS suggested in its response to us that it had already paid the costs Mr N was referencing when dealing with the claim so there would be a loss to it if it then had to reimburse Mr N as well. I asked it to provide a breakdown of exactly what it had paid. That information suggests DAS did pay for the international lawyer to carry out a prospects assessment but hadn't paid costs to them beyond that. DAS said it accepted its international lawyer would have incurred their own costs to initiate court proceedings and said it was therefore prepared to consider the costs Mr N had incurred in doing so at conclusion of the case (subject to a proper breakdown of these being provided and them meeting the terms of his policy). It also said it wouldn't pay for costs incurred if the claim was being litigated from a different country. I don't think the claim was litigated from elsewhere; Mr N told us the lawyer he instructed was based in the same country where proceedings were issued. But I think what DAS has now proposed is a fair way of resolving the matter. I appreciate Mr N was concerned about his claim becoming time barred but I don't see that would have prevented him from bringing those concerns to DAS's attention at the start of June which would have given it the opportunity to instruct its own lawyers to take protective proceedings if necessary. So I think it's right the costs he incurred in doing so are considered against the remaining terms of his policy which do say that DAS will only pay costs that are reasonable and necessary. I also think it's right those costs are reviewed in line with the provisions of DAS's Standard Terms of Appointment' which I understand means they would be considered at conclusion of the claim. I've concluded that these costs are ones DAS should consider primarily because I don't think its position has been prejudiced because Mr N didn't seek authorisation in advance for them. As I'm satisfied that's the case I haven't needed to go on to consider the points Mr N has raised about the impact of his neurodevelopmental condition and the Equality Act 2010. I also agree there was some further avoidable delay by DAS in progressing this claim. Mr N has accepted the 250 our investigator said it should pay to recognise the impact of that on him. And I think that's a fair way of recognising the distress and inconvenience he was caused. I recognise Mr N has raised concerns about further invoices that he believes DAS should cover. However, as that issue appears to have arisen after he made this complaint to DAS, I think it's something DAS would reasonably need an opportunity to consider before we could become involved. And it's told us that it does want to understand the present position on the case and to agree terms with his solicitor. Mr N told us he's having difficulties in contacting DAS so I'd encourage it to reach out to him. I think discussion between the parties could mean it was possible to resolve these issues without the need for a further complaint to our service. Responses to my provisional decision Both parties confirmed they agreed with my provisional decision and didn't have any further comments to make. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I don't have any reason to change the findings I set out in it. Putting things right DAS will need to consider the costs Mr N incurred in instructing his own lawyer to initiate court proceedings in line with the remaining policy terms (which will include assessing whether those costs were reasonable and necessary) at conclusion of the claim. It will also need to pay Mr N 250. 
My final decision
I've decided to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will need to put things right by doing what I've said in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.