The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd's (Accredited) handling of their claim under their home insurance policy. Mr R has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs R or Mr R as Mr R throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr R says, following an escape of water which caused damage in his kitchen, he reported a claim to Accredited. Accredited then appointed an agent to manage the claim who I'll refer to as company T, and an agent to carry out the works who I'll refer to as company A. Mr R says his kitchen floor required replacing but this was laid unevenly, and the underfloor heating was electrically unsafe. Mr R says the work also required the removal of his kitchen sink and units but, in attempting to do so, a contractor damaged the sink. Mr R says Accredited then amended the schedule of works to show the sink and units no longer required removal. Mr R says he queried these issues but didn't receive any response and, because the contractor didn't return, Mr R had to replace the sink at his own expense. Mr R then complained about these issues and about the lack of response from Accredited to his requests for information. Accredited responded and acknowledged there were occasions where Mr R's communication wasn't responded to within their service timescales. They explained they do try to respond within the timescales but due to a high influx of escape of water claims, they're occasionally unable to do so. And they apologised for the occasions when Mr R received no response. In relation to the schedule of works, they said they note Mr R's comments about the damaged sink being caused by their contractor and said they understand this was dealt with between Mr R and the contractor. In relation to door thresholds, they apologised for any inconvenience caused, however they noted that Mr R had accepted a cash settlement in respect of this. In relation to the flooring, they said this is currently under review with their managing surveyor who will be liaising with the contractor and will revert to Mr R. In later correspondence, Accredited offered 50 compensation for the communication issues. After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R and Accredited on 20 May 2024. In my provisional decision I said as follows: My role requires me to say how a complaint should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality and so I'll focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. I think it's important to add, I won't be commenting on every event during the claim and complaint process, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. I think it's also important to add, my decision only addresses the events up to and including Accredited's complaint response on 6 July 2023. Amendment to schedule of works and damage to sink The information shows a schedule of works was prepared and this noted the base units would need to be removed and refitted and Kitchen sinkRemove & refit. Mr R says, noticing that the sink was going to be removed anyway, he decided he would like to have it replaced with a new one so this was agreed with company A as private work. This is supported by the information as it shows company A emailed Mr R and referred to additional costs payable by him. The email said, Reposition sink if possible (may damage on removal depending on current fitting if this occurs I will discuss further) - 49. 00 + VAT. Mr R responded and said Ideally a new sink if workmen can source one to fit otherwise reposition There was further emails confirming this arrangement so I'm satisfied the original scope did include removal and refitting of Mr R's sink, but it was agreed a replacement sink would be arranged as private work. Mr R says, when the work started a joiner arrived but wasn't able to remove the worktops. A plumber also arrived and, having removed the plumbing under the sink, the plumber wasn't able to remove the sink despite the joiner also trying to help. Mr R says the sealant at the front and back became detached, but they struggled to release the sealant from the sides. Mr R says during the process of attempting to release the sink it became damaged and was now dipping in a V shape'. Mr R says the sink was then left in place. Mr R has provided photos which show the sink in position and with the sealant removed from the back. Mr R says the joiner then arrived the following day and explained, due to the inability to remove the worktop without damage, the schedule of works had been amended. Mr R says this meant there had been no need to remove and refit the sink which had now been damaged. I've seen an amended schedule of works, and this doesn't include the kitchen sink removal and refit. There was then further communication about the replacement sink and Mr R paying for the private work upfront. After this was paid, Mr R says the plumber arrived but explained he was there to refit the original sink. Mr R says the plumber was going to reseal the sink, but Mr R wasn't comfortable with this as it wouldn't provide sufficient strength to keep the sink in place. Mr R says the plumber then spoke with their manager and then left site. Mr R says a decorator who was also on site then managed to release the sink by removing the sealant on the sides. Mr R says they didn't ask the decorator to do this, and the decorator was only being helpful. Mr R says company T then contacted him and explained company A had refused to source and fit a replacement sink on the basis that Mr R had prevented the plumber from refitting the original sink. Mr R says they also claimed that Mr R had arranged to remove the sink himself and their tradesmen hadn't removed the sink. Mr R says this wasn't true as the decorator had later told him that he'd informed company A he'd removed the sink. Company A then emailed Mr R and said the contractor who'd attended Mr R's home had updated them about Mr R's actions on site. They said the contractor confirmed that Mr R refused to have the sink reconnected which was what was on offer so in that case the plumber left without completing the task. They said Mr R can arrange to refit/replace the sink with his own choice of plumber as the likelihood now is that the sink will be damaged, and they won't be taking responsibility for it. Mr R then purchased a replacement sink and appointed his own plumber to fit it at a total cost of 619. 87. So, Mr R feels Accredited should be responsible for these costs. Mr R says the original requirement for removal of the base units was to allow an inspection of the flooring beneath the sink. But the scope on the second day of the works changed without any consultation with him. He says it was decided that the worktops, base units and sink no longer needed to be removed and there was to be no inspection of any water damage under the base unit. Mr R remains concerned there might still be problems in that area. It's not unusual or uncommon for a schedule of works to be amended as reinstatement work proceeds. Sometimes a contractor may discover problems which weren't apparent at the outset, and they'll amend the schedule to include any additional work, and other times they may have factored in some work at the outset but then later decide this work may not now be necessary. I've seen the original schedule of works, and this does include removal and refit of the base units, worktop and sink. The information I've seen about the claim doesn't show there was any damage to these items as a result of the escape of water. So, I'm more persuaded that this work was included in order to inspect the flooring beneath the sink. Accredited then amended the schedule of works and decided the removal of these items was no longer necessary. Accredited say once their contractor starts the work, they'll continue to refer to the schedule of works to decide if all work listed is still required. They said, after starting the work, company A assessed the flooring underneath the sink and determined there was no damage and therefore didn't need to be replaced. Accredited say, on this basis, there was no need to take out the units, and the schedule of works was amended to reflect this. Accredited say another contractor, who stripped back the floor, also checked underneath the sink and also confirmed the flooring wasn't damaged. In this case, and given the information I've seen, I can't say it was unreasonable for Accredited to amend the schedule of works. I acknowledge the original schedule of works did include work to determine any damage to the flooring underneath the sink, but this position changed after work had started and I don't think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr R remains concerned about damage he believes may be present underneath the sink but, at this stage, I've seen no evidence there is damage to that area. There's no dispute that the plumber did originally try to remove the sink. The dispute here is whether the plumber damaged it while carrying out the work of removing it in line with the original schedule of works. Mr R says it was the plumber who damaged it and Accredited say the damage wasn't caused by any of their contractors. To decide this part of the complaint, I've considered all of the evidence and decided it based on the balance of probabilities that is, what I think is more likely than not. The photos provided by Mr R show the sink still in place but with areas of the sealant removed. These photos were taken after the plumber attempted to remove the sink on the first day but was unsuccessful. There is then a photo showing the sink after Mr R says it was removed by the decorator, and this shows the sink with a significant bend and forming a V shape'. But the photos taken after the first day, don't show the sink having a significant bend. So, I'm more persuaded the bend wasn't caused by the plumber on the first day and as part of the work being done under the claim. I acknowledge Mr R says the decorator who eventually managed to remove the sink was still Accredited's contractor, but I haven't seen any evidence which shows it was the decorator who removed the sink and in doing so, caused the significant bend. So, given that I'm not persuaded Accredited's contractor damaged the sink, I can't fairly ask them to reimburse Mr R's costs for replacing the sink. Door thresholds I can see the work involved replacement of three door thresholds and Mr R queries why he had to appoint his own contractor to carry out this work. The information shows company A refused to attend Mr R's home to install the door thresholds given concerns they'd raised about Mr R's behaviour. I can see company T then paid a cash settlement of 268. 09 to Mr R and Mr R has since confirmed to our service he doesn't have an issue with this cash settlement. I acknowledge a cash settlement wasn't Mr R's original preference, but given the impasse which had been reached, I don't think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for company T to offer a cash settlement in order to progress the claim. I do acknowledge Mr R queries what behaviour company A are referring to but it's clear company A wouldn't be prepared to attend again, and I think company T then took reasonable steps to settle this part of the claim. Flooring and underfloor heating The information shows Mr R raised concerns about the flooring being uneven. I can see company T agreed to carry out a site visit and, following this, Accredited agreed to review this. Given Mr R's concerns about poor workmanship, I think Accredited have taken reasonable steps to address this part of the complaint by carrying out a site visit and agreeing to review this work. I can see things have moved on from this point, but as mentioned above, my decision only considers Accredited's actions up to the point of the complaint response. Communication issues The key facts about this part of the complaint aren't in dispute. Accredited accept they got things wrong with the delays in their response to Mr R's communication. I think it's right they compensate Mr R for this, but I don't think their offer of 50 goes far enough to reflect the impact on Mr R. There's been a number of occasions where Mr R has had to chase for a response. For example, company T explained to Mr R that company A were refusing to attend his home to complete the repairs due to Mr R's behaviour. Mr R queried what he was alleged to have done but he didn't receive a response and had to chase five days later. On another occasion, company T emailed Mr R to say a member of their surveying team would review the claim following Mr R's concerns about poor workmanship. A week later Mr R chased for an update and just under two weeks later company T emailed to say they were still engaging with company A about this. Having not heard back, Mr R chased around three weeks later, and company T apologised and said they were still waiting to hear back from company A. A couple of days later company T contacted Mr R to arrange a visit to inspect the work carried out. On a further occasion, a representative from company T attended Mr R's home to check the standard of work. Mr R raised some queries which the representative explained they couldn't answer and Mr R then emailed company T to say he wanted a response to his queries. Over the next four weeks Mr R continued to chase for a response and company T kept assuring him they'd passed his messages on to the case handler and they would contact him with an update and a response to his queries. The case handler did then contact Mr R only to say that they were no longer the case handler and that they'd forgotten to inform Mr R about this. Mr R then had to chase the new case handler for around a week. It's clear from the information I've seen Mr R was becoming increasingly frustrated with the lack of response and he was inconvenienced in having to chase for updates on numerous occasions. Any repairs to a customer's home will involve a degree of trouble and inconvenience. But in this case, I think the trouble, frustration and inconvenience went beyond what a customer should normally expect and I've considered not only the number of occasions Mr R's communication didn't receive a prompt response and how often he had to chase but also the period over which this impacted Mr R. So, taking into account the significant impact on Mr R and the duration of that impact, I think 300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see Mr R has provided a timeline of events where he references further concerns relating to the claim following the final response letter in July 2023. I understand Mr R is very concerned about further delays and lack of communication, and I would remind Accredited of their duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide appropriate information on the progress of a claim. If however Mr R does wish to take forward any further complaints which have arisen following the complaint response in July 2023, then he will need to raise these with Accredited first to allow them an opportunity to investigate these before our service is able to look into them. So, subject to any further comments from Mr R or Accredited, my provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Accredited to pay compensation. Following my provisional decision, Accredited haven't responded with any further comments. Mr R has responded and says the V' shape of the sink was caused by having to squeeze the underfit sink downwards and then through the narrow unit door in order to get it out. Mr R has also provided a screenshot of text messages he has exchanged with the decorator who he says removed the sink. Mr R says he believes this may prove his account of events. Mr R says he still hasn't received an explanation of his alleged behaviour which led to company A raising concerns with Mr R. Mr R also says he doesn't believe compensation of 300 fully reflects the impact on him and Mrs R over the last 18 months. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I've decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above. I have considered Mr R's text message exchanges with the decorator, but I'm not persuaded this shows the plumber damaged the sink while carrying out the work under the claim. I can see, in his text message, Mr R makes reference to the sink being damaged by the plumber. He also discusses what colour paint the decorator used when he previously attended Mr R's home. The decorator only responds to Mr R's query about the paint. Mr R responds to a point about the paint and then refers to Accredited claiming that Mr R is responsible for the damage to the sink. The decorator only responds to the point made by Mr R about the paint. Mr R then asks the decorator to confirm that he removed the sink and not Mr R. Mr R confirms he hasn't received a response to this. I can't see the decorator has made any admission here that he removed the sink. But in any event, I still wouldn't be persuaded that the plumber damaged the sink while carrying out the work which was part of the claim. Based on the information I have at this stage, I find the photos which I've already referred to above, as most persuasive in deciding this part of the complaint. These photos, which were taken by Mr R after the plumber's attempt to remove the sink, don't show the sink in a V' shape. So, while I have carefully considered Mr R's account, I'm not persuaded the damage was done while the claim related work was being carried out. I acknowledge Mr R's point about not receiving any explanation from Accredited about the behaviour company A raised concerns about. It appears company A were referring to an issue which they claim the plumber faced when he attended Mr R's home to reseal the sink. I accept Mr R's point that Accredited haven't been clear about what the alleged behaviour was, and that's something I've factored into my decision on a reasonable level of compensation. In relation to Mr R's point about the level of compensation, I think it's important for me to clarify, my decision only addresses Accredited's service up to their final response letter in July 2023. So while I acknowledge Mr R has made reference to the impact on him and Mrs R over the last 18 months, the compensation I've awarded only reflects the impact on them up to the complaint response. I can see Mr R has raised further concerns relating to more recent events, but as mentioned above, any further complaints will need to be raised with Accredited first. I wish to reassure Mr R I've read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I haven't mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isn't because I haven't seen it or thought about it. It's just that I don't feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isn't intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. Putting things right I've taken the view that Accredited have made errors in their communication with Mr R. So, Accredited should pay Mrs R and Mr R compensation of 300 for the significant trouble, frustration and inconvenience caused. 