The complaint
Mr M complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (Churchill) dealt with a claim under his home contents insurance policy. Churchill use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. References to Churchill include these agents. Mr M was supported by a representative when bringing his complaint. References to Mr M include his representative. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr M said there was a water leak from the flat above which came through the ceiling light in the living room area of his flat. Mr M initially reported the incident to the property owner (V), thinking they would be liable for the damage. V said they didn't provide cover for contents, only the building. Mr M contacted Churchill the following month to tell them about the incident and lodge a claim. He said a sofa bed had been damaged, which had been bought recently for between 500 and 600. Churchill said the policy excess for an escape of water claim was 450, which would (if the claim was accepted) leave a net settlement of 150. Churchill also appointed an assessor (II) to inspect the damaged sofa. Mr M subsequently said a mattress and cushions were damaged in the incident, which he said cost 1,000 and 400 respectively. Having inspected the damage, II offered a cash settlement of 575. Mr M then said a bedframe had been damaged when the affected mattress was placed on it (he sometimes used it on the sofa bed). Because of the further items being added to the claim, Churchill referred the matter to their Claims Validation Team for further review. Churchill reviewed the claim in more detail but had concerns. V said Mr M had been told the day he contacted them they wouldn't cover contents damage. They also said they'd sent an electrician to the property the month following the incident and found no repairs to the ceiling light were required. And the tenant of the property above Mr M told the electrician they weren't aware of any escape of water from their property. Churchill also appointed a supplier (WY) who visited Mr M's property in January 2020, taking video footage of the ceiling and light where Mr M said the water came through. Based on what V and WY provided, together with what Mr M had claimed, Churchill concluded there was no evidence of the incident taking place. Had it taken place, Churchill would have expected to see water staining or damage to the ceiling and to the sofa (Mr M said the water was mixed in with paint and plaster). Churchill also had concerns at the month's delay in Mr M telling them about the incident when V said they'd told Mr M the day he reported the incident to them in October 2019 they wouldn't cover damage to contents. Additionally, Churchill questioned the costs being claimed for the cushions and the additional items claimed for after Mr M was told about the likely settlement for his sofa once the policy excess was deducted. Churchill weren't satisfied an insured event had occurred and thought Mr M exaggerated his claim. And he hadn't provided explanations to allay their concerns. Churchill said Mr M deliberately provided inaccurate information, which breached the policy Fraud Duty. Churchill wrote to Mr M in February 2020, referring to the Fraud Duty and said they regarded the policy as cancelled, declined the claim and wouldn't refund any premiums. Mr M then complained to Churchill, in November 2023. He said Churchill staff verbally abused him during the course of his claim, including his health conditions that made it difficult to communicate in English. This in turn made it more difficult to be understood. His contents had been damaged and he wanted Churchill to cover the damage. Churchill didn't uphold the complaint. In their final response they said as they'd closed the claim in February 2020, call recordings relating to the claim were no longer available. But reviewing claim notes didn't indicate any evidence of the behaviour Mr M said he'd experienced. Having also reviewed the claim decision, Churchill said they wouldn't alter the decline of the claim as the fraud condition had been breached. Mr M then complained to this Service. He was unhappy at the decline of his claim and the abuse he'd suffered from Churchill's staff. He'd been affected financially by the cost of cleaning the mattress and covers and the sofa clovers. And the cost of travelling to seek advice and assistance. The damage had also affected his mental and physical disabilities. He felt Churchill declined his claim because of the language barriers and his mental and physical disabilities. He wanted Churchill to replace the damaged contents and to apologise for how he was treated when he made his claim. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint, concluding Churchill didn't need to do anything more. He thought Churchill considered Mr M's claim, but the evidence (from V and WY) indicated there wasn't an insured event, so Churchill acted fairly in declining the claim. On the issue of Churchill staff being abusive, while the call recordings were no longer available, Churchill had considered the issue and so acted reasonably. Mr M disagreed with the investigator's conclusions and asked an ombudsman review the complaint. He provided photographs of the damage to his contents, as well as copies of receipts for cleaning. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'd want to assure Mr M I've carefully considered everything he's told us in bringing his complaint, including what he's told us about his mental and physical health conditions and the impact they have on him, including his memory. I've borne this in mind when deciding, as is my role here, whether Churchill have acted fairly towards Mr M. The main element of Mr M's complaint is that Churchill acted unfairly by not accepting his claim for damage to his contents. In addition, Mr M says Churchill staff verbally abused him and his mental and physical disabilities. Churchill say they fairly declined the claim on the grounds of breach of the policy fraud condition. They also say there's no evidence to support Mr M's view he was abused by their staff, though the length of time since the claim was closed means call recordings are no longer available. In considering both views, I've carefully considered all the evidence and information provided both by Mr M and by Churchill, including that provided by Mr M to Churchill to support his claim. In doing so, I should note that my role isn't to determine whether Mr M acted fraudulently, but rather to decide whether Churchill have acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition to decline his claim. For Churchill to do so, they need to show it is more likely than not the condition was breached. So I've looked at the evidence provided. Having done so, I've concluded they acted fairly and reasonably. I know Mr M will be disappointed by this conclusion, so I'll set out the reasons for reaching this conclusion. In first considering the decline of his claim (and cancellation of his policy) Churchill refer to the policy terms and conditions about fraud. Specifically, they refer to the General Conditions section of the policy, which contains the following: Fraud You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim: Your policy may be cancelled We may reject your claim and any subsequent claims We may keep any premium you have paid. What happens if we discover fraud We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share information about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We may also involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal proceedings. If a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim has been made under any other policy you hold with us, we may cancel this policy. I've then considered the sequence of events summarised above, with reference to the evidence and information available. From Churchill's case notes I can see Mr M contacted them at the beginning of November 2019 to inform them of the incident and the damage to the sofa. Churchill inform him of the 450 policy excess and Mr M is concerned at this as the cost of the sofa (600) means a net settlement of 150. A couple of days later he contacts them to say a mattress had also been damaged (cost 1,000). After a settlement of 575 is offered, Mr M contacted Churchill again to say cushions and a bedframe were also damaged. Given the sequence here, the addition of items not mentioned when the incident was first notified, I think it's reasonable Churchill referred the claim to their Claims Validation Team. As part of the validation, Churchill contacted V to obtain their view of events, and also appointed WY to visit the property and assess the damaged items and the ceiling. From the email sent by V to Churchill they confirm no repairs were needed to the property when their electrician visited in November 2019, and they have no record from the neighbouring tenant about a leak. As an independent third party, I think their evidence is persuasive in leading Churchill, along with the inspection by WY, to conclude Mr M hadn't shown there was a leak (insured event) as he claimed. I've also considered what Churchill say are inconsistencies in Mr M's account of events, including why he didn't report the damage as soon as he became aware of it in October 2019, given V told him the same day (I've seen the text from V to Mr M confirming this) any damage wouldn't be covered under their policy. Mr M had provided copies of receipts for cleaning of the items he says were damaged, but again these are dated November 2019, a month after the incident was said to have happened. I'm not persuaded the evidence indicates a reason for the delay in reporting the damage to Churchill. Looking at Churchill's case notes, they record their concerns and their discussions with Mr M about those concerns and his version of events. They support the conclusion reached by Churchill that Mr M provided inaccurate information and had exaggerated his claim. In addition to there being no evidence to support an insured event (leak) had occurred. Here, my role is to decide if Churchill applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably in these particular circumstances. Based on what I've seen and the conclusions I've reached, I think they did. The fraud condition set out above gives Churchill the right to cancel Mr M's policy, decline his claim and retain the premiums in the circumstances set out in the condition. Given my conclusions, I think Churchill acted fairly and reasonably in applying the fraud condition actions in cancelling the policy, declining the claim and retaining the premiums. On the issue of whether Churchill staff verbally abused Mr M, it appears Churchill only retain call recordings associated with a claim for three years. Given the time between the claim being assessed (and declined) and Mr M's complaint (both to Churchill and to this Service) call recordings aren't available. In their absence, it's not possible to evidence directly whether or not Mr M was subject to the abuse he described. But Churchill's case notes don't indicate anything to suggest Mr M was subject to abuse of the kind he described, including case notes made at the time of the claim that refer to the calls between Churchill and Mr M. More broadly, although he hasn't directly mentioned it in his complaint, what he maintains happened could be seen as discrimination against him on the grounds of religion and /or of disability, under the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). Only a court can decide whether there has been a breach of the Act, it isn't something that this Service can determine. However, when looking at the case and the decision to decline Mr M's claim, I haven't seen anything to indicate or suggest he was treated any differently than would any other customer in the same set of circumstances. Taking all these points together, I've concluded Churchill haven't acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M, so I won't be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it's my final decision not to uphold Mr M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2024. Paul King Ombudsman