The complaint
Mr B complained about esure's actions when he claimed for repairs under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B's car was damaged when someone reversed into it. esure had their approved repairers (esure's garage) repair it. When Mr B wasn't happy with their repairs, esure agreed that Mr B could have his car repaired by a garage of his choice (Mr B's garage) instead. esure also waived the policy excess which normally applied when not using esure's garage. Mr B's garage did some repairs on the car, for which esure paid. But there was an issue involving his car's cruise control, which they were unable to repair. They wanted to send it to another garage which had specialist diagnostics and specialist wiring mechanics to investigate and repair the cruise control issue. They wanted esure to pay for that. But esure had already paid Mr B's garage several amounts for the repairs and were not willing to pay any more. They said that Mr B's garage had agreed that they had the skill to repair Mr B's car and hadn't been able to, and their repair work on the cruise control could have affected the issue. Mr B also complained that esure hadn't given him a courtesy car for all the time when his car was being repaired. He was also unhappy with their service. He felt that he had to do all the communication about the courtesy car and be the go-between between esure and his garage. esure offered him a payment for loss of use of his car when he was without a courtesy car, plus 100 compensation for that. But Mr B wanted esure to pay to repair his car, give him a like for like hire car during that repair, and compensate him for his stress and lost time. The investigator didn't recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought esure hadn't acted unfairly. Mr B didn't agree, and so I've been asked to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Courtesy car Mr B said that delayed giving him a courtesy car and didn't give him a like for like one. He was without a car for about thirteen days, because esure's hire car company did not have any in stock. esure then got him one for about seven days. I see that Mr B's policy obliges esure to provide a courtesy car for the duration of your repairs, the cost of which will be settled by us as part of your claim. This will usually be a Group A car such as a Nissan Micra or Toyota Aygo. So it's clear that esure were required to provide a car but not a like for like car. However when their hire car provider couldn't provide a courtesy car right away, esure did agree to an upgrade for him. But they still couldn't provide one so when he did receive a car it wasn't an upgraded one. Mr B felt esure were inflexible and could have used another hire car company to get him a car earlier. However I think that's a commercial decision for esure as to what supplier they use, and we wouldn't generally interfere in that. Further, esure did apologise for not providing him a courtesy car earlier and offered him 70 for loss of use of his car, at 10 per day over the time period Mr B's garage had estimated their repairs would take. esure offered 100 compensation on top of that. Mr B thought that was inadequate to cover his travel arrangements for his commute. However esure's loss of use payment is in line with our guidance on this so I can't say they acted unreasonably there. Repairs Mr B wasn't happy with Mr B's garage repairs. At that point, esure could have offered for the work to be rectified by another of their recommended repairers. But Mr B wanted to use a garage of his choice, a non recommended repairer, and esure agreed to that. I've looked at his policy which says on Page 13, regarding when using a non recommended repairer You will need to send us a detailed estimate from your choice of repairer and details of the incident as soon as possible We will only be liable for the repair costs once we have agreed on the estimate. We will only pay for reasonable and necessary repairs and we reserve the right to say no to an estimate. You will need to pay an additional 200 excess. This is in addition to any other applicable excess shown in your Schedule. I think it is clear from this that esure would not pay for Mr B's garage's work unless they agreed in advance that it was reasonable and necessary. This reflects the position that an insurer is normally liable for their own repairers' work, but not that of other repairers. esure waived the above additional 200 excess which would normally apply when a consumer chose the repairer, and I think that was fair. esure obtained an estimate from Mr B's garage and informed them that esure's authority to do the work was issued on the understanding that the repairer has both the technical knowledge and equipment to repair the vehicle to Thatcham / Manufacturer safety and quality standards. . So I think that was clear and not unreasonable. Mr B's garage was a manufacturer approved garage. After esure authorised the repairs and an amount, Mr B's garage commenced the work in about May/June. They came back to esure several times to ask for more money for the repairs, and esure agreed to this each time. By this time they had paid Mr B's garage over 2,000. But when, several months later in about late September, Mr B's garage asked for more money to send the car to another more specialist manufacturer garage, to identify and fix the cruise control problem, esure wouldn't agree. Mr B said his garage had tried to calibrate the cruise control unit many times and had replaced it with a new unit, but this still hadn't fixed the issue, and his car was now in limp mode which made it unable to drive. His garage thought it may be an electrical wiring issue causing the fault, and that's what they wanted another manufacturer garage to test as it had better diagnostic facilities. Mr B's garage said they couldn't go any further with the repair without that. They said it was an underlying problem from the previous repair and so wasn't their responsibility. But esure thought Mr B's garage should investigate it at their own cost. esure thought this extra cost was not reasonable or necessary. Their engineers considered that the current cruise control problem was not likely to be related to the works their garage had done or to the accident, and that Mr B's garage's work on the problem could have affected the car's systems or made it worse. esure's engineers thought that the faults highlighted were consistent with faulty radar, but as Mr B's garage had replaced that, it wasn't esure's responsibility. So they wouldn't agree to the further investigation and repair or for a courtesy car during that. We don't assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs. We look at all the available evidence - including anything provided by the consumer, the insurer, and the repairer. We normally give the greatest weight to independent expert motor engineer reports. Mr B's garage's report didn't explain why they disagreed with the insurer's engineers' opinion. It did not address esure's engineers' concerns about the possible link between Mr B's garage's repairs and the current problem. They simply asserted that it was an underlying issue. In particular they didn't explain how, despite the repair work they'd done over some months , and which included replacing a relevant part, the problem had become worse in that the car had since become undriveable. So Mr B's garage's view wasn't conclusive that the current cruise control problem was caused by esure's garage's previous repair or by the accident itself. Nor has Mr B provided a report from an independent qualified engineer as the cause of the current cruise control problem. So I don't think that there is enough evidence to suggest that esure should pay for further investigation and repair. Mr B's car has been damaged through no fault of his own and now feels that he is in the middle of an argument between esure and his garage. I realise that is frustrating and I know it's not Mr B's fault. But that doesn't mean that it is esure's fault. I think esure have done what they had to do under the policy. There will always be some inconvenience involved in pursuing an insurance claim particularly where repairs are involved. More communication by the consumer is likely to be required when a consumer uses their own garage, because the insurer is not dealing with their own contractor with whom they have an existing relationship. That doesn't mean that esure acted unreasonably here. I can see that they did communicate with Mr B's garage direct. I would expect esure to honour the loss of use payment and the 100 compensation if they have not already paid that, but I don't require esure to do any more. 