The complaint
The estate of Mrs L has complained that ReAssure Limited failed to investigate the status of the late Mrs L's life insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I won't repeat it in detail again here. In summary Mrs L arranged a whole life policy in 1994 designed to pay a sum of 8,630 if she died whilst the policy was in force. Mrs L passed away in 2006. In 2022 Mrs M, who represents the estate of Mrs L, found a policy document and asked ReAssure about the status of the policy. She thought it had probably been cancelled but wished to check. The policy had been passed from the first provider to ReAssure. ReAssure acknowledged the enquiry but didn't substantively respond. Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint was upheld. He was satisfied that Reassure had made reasonable attempts to locate the policy but held no record of it which suggested it ended some time ago. Mrs M appealed on behalf of the estate. She felt that there should be records of what happened to the policy. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons: It is unfortunate that ReAssure didn't reply to the estate's request other than provide an acknowledgement. As the investigator explained, we are not able to award compensation to the estate. However I'm satisfied that ReAssure made reasonable efforts to locate the policy it carried out searches in order to determine what happened. This accords with its regulatory obligation to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. The searches were both by policy number and policyholder details. They returned no details. ReAssure assumed that if it was a policy that came over from the first provider, it ended some time ago as it didn't even have skeleton records. This isn't surprising financial businesses aren't required to continue to hold data on their customers. Once the policy has come to an end there would be no need to retain data indefinitely so I don't find, as the estate suggests, that not having records was negligent on the part of ReAssure. Understandably the estate has little documentary evidence given the passage of time. It has submitted the policy document and a bank statement, but for example, it is not able to show the date until which the premiums were paid until. It may be that Mrs L decided to stop paying premiums, which would have meant that in time the policy would have lapsed. This is confirmed in the policy documentation, which provides that if Mrs L stopped her premiums within the first 12 months, the policy would come to an end. Or if after this, the policy would continue for as long as the portion paid into the investment part would support it. As there is no evidence to the contrary, it is possible that the policy lapsed or that Mrs L decided not to continue with the policy. I make this decision on the evidence to hand. It is open to the estate to seek further evidence, and of course it can then present anything material to ReAssure for its consideration. I'm sorry not to be able to bring the estate and Mrs M more welcome news, but as there is no record of the policy it is more than likely that it ended some time ago. On the available evidence I don't find that ReAssure has acted in error here. 