The complaint
Mr M complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) caused delays after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. There are several parties and representatives of esure involved throughout the complaint but for the purposes of this complaint I'm only going to refer to esure. 
What happened
In August 2023 Mr M s unoccupied car was damaged by a third-party. The police attended the incident and the third-party admitted liability. Mr M's car was deemed repairable and was taken to an esure approved repairer. After speaking with esure's approved repairer Mr M became concerned about the work it was due to undertake, which included cutting the car chassis. He obtained independent advice on the proposed work. Because concerns were raised about the structural integrity of the car if the chassis were to be cut, he asked for the repairs to be stopped. A second repairer was found and Mr M's car was taken there. Repairs were re-started a few weeks later. Mr M said he had not agreed for the repairs to be re-started on his car. He said it was unclear as to what the repairs involved. He said he had requested this and other information from esure several times without a response. esure agreed there had been delays caused with Mr M's claim and offered 100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Because Mr M was not happy with esure, he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said the work initially proposed by esure's approved repairer delayed the claim progress and led to Mr M's car being moved to another garage. They said there was confusion around if the car was a total loss or if it was to be repaired and Mr M's requests to esure for information weren't responded to. They said esure should increase its offer of compensation to 400. As Mr M is unhappy with our investigator's view the complaint has been brought to me for a final decision to be made. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When Mr M initially became concerned about the repairs due to take place on his car, it was discovered that esure's approved repairer was not a manufacturer approved repair centre. Mr M said he had been clear at the start of his claim that repairs must be undertaken by a manufacturer approved repair centre. However I have not seen any evidence he specifically asked for this at the start of his claim. It is not a condition of Mr M's policy that the repairs must only be undertaken by a manufacturer approved repair centre When esure was made aware that Mr M had taken repair advice from the car manufacturer and they told him they required the car be repaired at a manufacturer approved repair centre, it agreed this was a reasonable request. It sourced a manufacturer approved repairer to complete the repairs and the car was moved. The repair work was not started immediately by the second repairer. I saw that the parts required had already been sourced by the original garage and it took some time for esure to organise for these to be used by the second repairer. esure accepted this caused a delay to the progression of Mr M's claim and apologised for this and offered 100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I saw due to the delay when esure were sorting out the parts for the repairs, that as a gesture of goodwill it made a total loss offer to Mr M. This offer was rejected by him. I saw that from October 2023 through to December 2023 Mr M made a number of contacts with esure by phone, email and through its online chat facility to chase up progression of his claim. He requested a copy of the damage report and a report of the repairs that were to be carried out. He said he understood once these were reviewed he would authorise the work to start on the repairs. esure said as repairing the car was the only option left to it and because the car was at a manufacturer approved repair centre, as Mr M had requested, it started the repairs. I can understand Mr M was nervous about the work that was to be carried out and why he wanted to be reassured by the damage and repair reports. I think esure could have provided these to Mr M in a more timely manner, because they had been completed and were available. This would have avoided Mr M having to chase esure to provide them. I also saw Mr M was in direct contact with the repairing garage so he did have the opportunity to ask directly for the reports which would have avoided the need for him to continue to chase esure directly. I saw Mr M has accepted the repairs to his car have been carried out using proper manufacturer methods. I also saw that esure arranged for an independent engineer to complete a post repair inspection of the car. A report will be provided to ensure all repairs are to all parties satisfaction. Mr M does not agree the amount of 400, suggested by our investigator, for the distress and inconvenience caused is enough. His main concerns are costs he has incurred whilst his car has been in the garage. He submitted a list of costs which included his car finance payments, road tax, insurance and depreciation amounts. I cannot consider these as they are costs which Mr M would have regardless of this claim. I cannot hold esure responsible for any financial arrangements made between Mr M and a third-party. Such costs were agreed and accepted separately by Mr M and are outside of the terms of his motor insurance policy. I have considered the delays caused in this case which are the initial delay when Mr M's car was moved, the delay in sorting out the parts with the original garage, the delay in esure providing information requested by him and the confusion about the car being a total loss. Therefore, I uphold Mr M's complaint and require esure to pay him a total of 400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays to his claim and delay in providing information about the repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr M a total of 400, less anything already paid, for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays to his claim and the delay in providing information about the repairs. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2024.