The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about Tesco Underwriting Limited's (Tesco) decision to decline their claim under their buildings insurance policy. Mr D has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr D or Mrs D as Mr D throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr D made a claim to Tesco and said storm conditions had led to part of his roof becoming detached and, on its way down, it struck his conservatory causing damage. Mr D said the storm had also caused a leak from his porch roof. Tesco appointed an agent to investigate the claim and they were of the opinion the damage was down to a deterioration of the roof felt and not a one-off storm event - so Tesco declined the claim. Mr D complained about Tesco's decision, and about the inspection carried out by the surveyor who attended. Tesco responded and explained the claim had been declined on the basis the damage wasn't caused by a one-off storm event. They referred to the report prepared by their agent which found the dormer roof had suffered deterioration to the felt which allowed rainwater to enter causing the bonding between the insulation and decking boards to fail. They said this had resulted in the felt and insulation lifting from the roof. In relation to the porch roof, Tesco said their agent found this to be in sound condition. They explained the agent said the water had entered behind the roof tiles and into the porch which had caused internal staining. In relation to Mr D's concern about the surveyor who attended his property not carrying out a thorough inspection, Tesco said all their agents' representatives are trained to determine if damage is caused by storm conditions. Tesco said the report they'd received was detailed and so they trusted the findings. In relation to the damage to the conservatory that happened due to the section of the roof which fell, Tesco confirmed they're able to cover this and asked Mr D to provide two quotes for repair. Our investigator looked into things for Mr D and Mrs D. She thought Tesco hadn't acted unfairly in declining the claim for the damage to the roof. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D and Mrs D will be disappointed by this but I'll explain why I have made this decision. My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so I'll focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. I can see Mr D says he isn't pursuing the claim to the porch roof and has decided to arrange the repairs for this himself. He does believe though that Tesco should be responsible for the damage to his roof. My starting point is Mr D's home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and conditions and provides cover for a storm event. It defines a storm as A single violent weather event with wind speeds exceeding 55mph, and/ortorrential rainfall at the rate of at least 25mm per hour. So, I'm satisfied that Tesco should've looked into Mr D's claim because he reported the damage was caused by a storm. I've then looked at whether Tesco's decision to decline the claim, and their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable. In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three questions: Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? If the answer is yes' to all three questions, we're likely to uphold the complaint. But if the answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met due to storm conditions. In weighing up the first question, I note Mr D reported the damage to Tesco on 20 October 2023. The report prepared by Tesco's agent says the weather records don't support the presence of storm conditions. I've checked the weather report for the few days leading up to the date Mr D discovered the damage, and this shows the highest winds to have been 46mph and this was on the day Mr D discovered the damage. While this doesn't strictly meet the policy's definition of a storm, I'm still persuaded this satisfies the test set out under the first question above. I say this because the nearest weather station which has recorded the wind speed is many miles from Mr D's property. I've also taken into account that Mr D lives in an area which experienced a named storm around the time Mr D says the damage occurred and a weather report prepared by the UK's national meteorological service comments on wind speeds reaching 58mph around the area where Mr D lives. So, while I'm not concluding Mr D's property was subject to wind speeds of 58mph, given the information I've seen, I'm persuaded it's fair in the circumstances to conclude there were storm like conditions in the area where Mr D's property is located. Given what I've said above about the wind speed, I'm persuaded the damage Mr D has claimed for is consistent with damage such wind speeds typically cause so the answer to the second question is also yes'. Turning now to the third question I need to consider whether the storm was the main cause for the damage in this instance. And, in this case, I can't say a storm was the main cause for the damage. I think it's important to firstly point out that the policy terms and conditions set out what factors aren't covered by the policy under the heading General Exclusions that apply to your policy'. This says, loss or damage caused by gradual deterioration or normal wear and tear. Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and that's what Tesco did. I think it's a fair thing to do and it's reasonable for Tesco to rely on the expert's report when deciding whether to meet the claim. In this case, Tesco instructed a loss adjuster who appointed a surveyor to inspect Mr D's property. The surveyor's report shows they inspected different areas of the property and the part of the roof which had become dislodged. The surveyor also took a number of photos showing the damage. The surveyor found, The dormer roof has suffered from deterioration to the felt which has allowed rain water to enter behind the felt causing the bonding between the insulation and decking boards to fail allowing the felt and insulation to be lifted from the roof causing further damage to the conservatoryThe porch roof covering appears to be in a sound condition however rain water has entered behind the roof tiles above and into the porch causing staining to the ceiling and walls in the room below, the tiled roof covering has a visible previous repair to the area above the rain water ingress identifying previous issues with the main roof covering. The report sets out the reasoning for declining the claim as, Taking all details into account it is our considered opinion that the resulting damage to the property is not a result of a single incident storm event but due to the deterioration of the dormer roof felt and failure of a previous repair to the main roof covering. The loss adjuster also adds that the rainfall has highlighted existing issues and it's a flat felt roof, which is clearly old and in poor condition. In this case, and given the damage which has occurred, a surveyor is an appropriate expert able to comment on the likely cause of the damage. That said, their opinion should still be based on evidence of what they've seen. So, I've followed through the surveyor's findings in order to decide whether their findings are reasonable. The first point the surveyor made is that the felt had deteriorated. Photos taken by the surveyor show that to be the case, with some areas showing signs of deterioration. The surveyor then found this had allowed rainwater to access behind the felt and through to the insulation. The report includes an aerial image which the surveyor says shows, discolouration to the felt consistent with the felt holding water due to sagging. I've seen the aerial image, and this does appear to support the surveyor's finding here. The surveyor then found that the water which has seeped through had caused the bonding between the insulation and decking boards to fail and this allowed the insulation and felt to be lifted from the roof. Given that the information does show evidence of deterioration to the felt which allowed water ingress, I don't think the surveyor's opinion, that this allowed the insulation and felt to be lifted from the roof, to be unreasonable. I can see Mr D says, he appreciates his roof was old, but he firmly believes it would've remained in place had it not been for the strong winds. I wish to reassure Mr D that I'm not disregarding there were storm like conditions at the time the damage occurred, but I'm more persuaded the storm highlighted an existing problem. The surveyor says, in further support of their opinion, that the photos show the insulation and felt had been incorrectly spot bonded to the decking boards. Looking at the photos, and specifically those showing the underside of the insulation, this does show evidence of spot bonding. In relation to the surveyor's finding about the water ingress leading to bonding failure, Mr D says the flat roof was nailed on and I can see he has provided a photo showing a row of nails along a section of the roof. But the photos of the insulation which had become dislodged shows evidence of spot bonding through the whole of the insulation, and I can't see evidence of any fixing holes within sections of the insulation. So I'm persuaded the insulation was secured primarily by being spot bonded to the decking boards. And given this failed as a result of water ingress through the felt which had deteriorated, even with the presence of a row of nails, I'm still more persuaded the storm condition highlighted an existing problem. So, given that I don't believe the storm condition was the main cause for the damage, the answer to the third question is no'. And, on this basis, I can't say Tesco have acted unfairly in declining Mr D's claim for the damage to his roof. I can see Mr D says he had four other dormer roofs replaced in 2021 and the roof in question was inspected and, under advice from two roofing companies, it wasn't found to be in a condition which required it to be replaced. I have carefully considered Mr D's point here, but I'm not persuaded this demonstrates there wasn't an existing problem at the time the damage occurred. Firstly, the inspection by the two roofing companies took place around two years before the damage occurred rather than shortly before. And secondly, any failing of the bonding between the insulation and the decking boards may not have been immediately visible. In any event, I have balanced this against the information which supports Tesco's decision to decline the claim and, on balance, I'm more persuaded the storm wasn't the main cause for the damage. I acknowledge Mr D has raised concerns about the thoroughness of the surveyor's inspection and he says the surveyor spent only a couple of minutes examining the damage by poking it with his pen I can see Mr D has raised this with Tesco and the loss adjuster has commented on this saying the photos show that the surveyor accessed all necessary areas by way of investigation. While there's a conflicting account of events here, I've considered the surveyor's report, and this shows evidence of them inspecting all relevant areas and also a detailed account of their findings and opinion. So, I'm more persuaded this demonstrates the surveyor carried out a sufficient investigation in order to provide an opinion. Mr D also questions how Tesco have accepted his claim for damage to his conservatory when this was caused by part of the roof falling when the claim for the roof has been declined. It appears Tesco are considering the damage to the conservatory under a separate section of the policy, so I don't think they've acted unfairly here or in a manner which is inconsistent with the policy terms and conditions. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr D and Mrs D as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their property is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have carefully considered their points and arguments but the evidence I've seen persuades me that, it's more likely than not, the storm condition wasn't the main cause of the damage. My role is to consider whether Tesco have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2024.