The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about an additional premium charged by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) after they made an amendment to their property owners insurance policy. Mr W has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs W or Mr W as Mr W throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr W says when he renewed his policy, he realised his correspondence address needed updating. So, he updated this, but it led to the premium increasing by around 30. Mr W felt this was unfair as the insured address remained the same and the only change was to his correspondence address. So, Mr W complained. UKI responded and explained premiums are based on the level of risk to provide cover. They said, at times, the risk to provide insurance may increase due to a range of factors. They explained they can't share their specific rating factors, or how they rate risk, as this information is commercially sensitive. They explained a manual loading hadn't been applied so the price Mr W received was based solely on the level of risk. Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She thought UKI hadn't treated Mr W unfairly in charging an additional premium. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be disappointed by this but I'll explain why I have made this decision. The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isn't to tell a business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly so is there anything which demonstrates they've been treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this unfairness. I can see Mr W was originally quoted a price of 247. 95 at renewal, but following the amendment to his correspondence address, the price increased to 275. 12. Mr W says his previous correspondence address was 21 miles away from the insured property. But when he moved address, he was then 36 miles from the insured property. He says the additional distance of 15 miles generated an additional premium of around 30. Mr W says his correspondence address being slightly further away now, shouldn't affect the risk presentation of his insured property - so he doesn't believe it's fair for UKI to charge more. UKI have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how the additional premium was calculated and what specific factors were taken into account. I'm afraid I can't share this with Mr W because it's commercially sensitive, but I've checked it carefully. And I'm satisfied the additional premium he was charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and I've seen no evidence that other UKI customers in Mr W's position will have been treated any differently. I acknowledge Mr W feels the premium increase is unfair, particularly because he says the risk details relating to the insured property haven't changed. Mr W says it's the same insured property and therefore the same risk and a different correspondence address doesn't change that risk. I do acknowledge why this has concerned Mr W, but it's for a business to decide what risks they're prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. That's not to say an insurer charging an additional premium has made an error compared to an insurer who doesn't but rather, it reflects the different approach they've decided to take to risk. In this case, I've seen the specific rating which has been impacted by the change of correspondence address and why an additional loading has been applied. And I'm satisfied this does relate to the presentation of risk for the cover being provided by UKI. As mentioned above, I can't provide Mr W with specific details about this rating and how it impacts the presentation of risk, but I do wish to reassure him that I've checked the pricing information and I can't say UKI have treated Mr W unfairly when re-rating the policy following the change in correspondence address. I wish to reassure Mr W I've read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I haven't mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isn't because I haven't seen it or thought about it. It's just that I don't feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isn't intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2024.