The complaint
Mrs E complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined a claim on her critical illness policy. 
What happened
Mrs E took out a critical illness policy with Aviva in 2020. In May 2022, Mrs E had a hearing test which eventually resulted in her being diagnosed with a dead ear. Mrs E raised a claim with Aviva. Aviva declined the claim as they said Mrs E didn't meet the policy definition for deafness. Mrs E complained and provided Aviva with a letter from her consultant. This stated, On the right hand side there was no hearing response all the way up to the maximum threshold of 110 decibels. However, it also stated the hearing test confirmed normal hearing on the left with average thresholds of 10 decibels. Mrs E said that before the hearing loss, her right ear was her better ear. Aviva confirmed that their claim outcome hadn't changed. They agreed Mrs E has lost her hearing in her right-hand side, but her left ear was now her better ear and so the term still hadn't been met. Mrs E didn't agree and so brought the complaint to our service. Mrs E added that she thought the policy term lacked clarity regarding the definition of better ear'. Our investigator didn't uphold Mrs E's complaint. She didn't think the policy definition had been met. She also said that the definition used by Aviva was in line with the model definition set out by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). Mrs E didn't agree. She thought that the ABI's definition was part of the problem as this also lacked clarity of a definition of better ear'. Mrs E also said that the policy doesn't refer to deafness in relation to individual ears. She said ears work in pairs and the brain depends on both ears working together to establish where and what the sound is. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, I've thought about whether Aviva acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mrs E's claim. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it'll come as a disappointment to Mrs E, I've reached the same outcome as our investigator, for the same reasons. The starting point is to look at the policy definition. In this case, the policy definition is as follows: Deafness permanent and irreversible Permanent and irreversible loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 70 decibels across all frequencies in the better ear using a pure tone audiogram. As Aviva have set out, I don't disagree that Mrs E has had a permanent and irreversible loss of hearing of greater than 70 decibels across all frequencies in her right ear. Mrs E has said that prior to the loss, her better ear' was her right ear. Whilst Mrs E hasn't provided any evidence to show that this was the case, I don't think this is necessary in this complaint. Critical illness insurance is there to provide reassurance in the event that a policyholder develops one of the very serious conditions specified in their policy. In this case, the condition being claimed for is deafness. Whilst I'm in no way downplaying Mrs E's diagnosis, or the impact this has on her, she still has normal hearing in her left ear. Mrs E isn't completely deaf which is what this policy sets out to cover. The ABI's model definition from their 2018 Guide to Minimum Standards for Critical Illness Cover was as follows: Deafness permanent and irreversible Permanent and irreversible loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 95 decibels across all frequencies in the better ear using a pure tone audiogram. Aviva's policy definition is more generous than the ABI's definition as the hearing loss doesn't have to be as high. Mrs E has said that the policy doesn't refer to deafness in individual ears. I agree. This is because the policy isn't there to cover deafness in a single ear. The policy requires a loss of hearing in Mrs E's better ear, greater than 70 decibels. Mrs E's better ear is currently her left ear. Her hearing is normal in this ear with an average range of 10 decibels. Based on what the policy is setting out to cover and the policy definition, I don't think the definition has been met. I don't think better ear' needs any further definition or clarity. I recognise my decision will be very disappointing to Mrs E, but I don't find that Aviva has done anything wrong, treated Mrs E unfairly or contrary to the policy terms. It follows that there is no basis for me to require Aviva to pay Mrs E's claim 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2024.