The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim made by a third-party on his motor insurance policy. The policy is in the name of Mr H and Mr H Snr, who is a named driver on the policy. For ease of reference I'll refer to Mr H throughout this decision since he's the one that's referred his concerns to this service. 
What happened
Mr H has car insurance with esure. In February 2023 Mr H was involved in a minor bump' with another vehicle. He says there was no damage to either vehicle and there were no injuries. Esure contacted Mr H for details of the incident since the third-party were now alleging damage. Mr H says he supplied full details as requested. Esure told Mr H it would be obtain engineering evidence and would keep him updated. In September 2023 Mr H received his renewal notice and saw he'd lost his no claims discount and his premium had increased significantly. Mr H realised the claim had been registered against him and he hadn't been kept informed by esure. His father, a named driver on the policy, started receiving cold calls asking him if he wanted to make a claim for personal injury. Mr H says esure have sold their details to other agencies and that is the reason for the calls. Mr H wasn't happy with the service so he contacted esure. Esure agreed it should have kept Mr H updated. It said it would reinstate the no claims discount and record the incident as no fault'. But esure didn't do this. So Mr H complained. Esure accept it failed to provide Mr H with an update following the third-party claim. So, it apologised and closed the claim as non-fault. It also allowed Mr H's no claims discount to be reinstated and paid him 150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the matter caused. Mr H wasn't satisfied with the response from esure so he asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She said there were repeated failings in the service esure provided during the claim and which took a reasonable effort for Mr H to sort out. So she upheld the complaint and recommended esure pay Mr H a further 150; taking the total compensation to 300. Esure didn't agree it said it didn't think fair consideration and weight had been given to its decision to record the claim as non-fault and reinstate the consumers no claims discount which will benefit him in the long term. Because esure didn't agree the complaint has come to me to decide. My provisional decision I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points. I said; I can see this matter and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr H. I've no doubt he's done all he can to try and prove his version of events and has acted in good faith when dealing with esure. I can understand why he thought the incident circumstances, and his own account of what happened would be enough to prove his version of events. And when the claim was recorded as a fault claim I think this would have both shocked and upset him. My role here is to look at whether esure acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. For ease, I've separated the complaint into key areas. Accepted fraudulent claim. In the terms and conditions of the policy esure can, take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit. And that is what it did here. Because of this esure didn't need Mr H's agreement or approval to accept liability. But I would expect it to base any decision on things such as the version of events provided by both parties, evidence to support or challenge the version of events, legal precedent, legislation, and the Highway Code. There were no independent witnesses who saw what happened, there was no CCTV, and police didn't attend the scene. Esure explained the third party had provided evidence to support their version of events, and so it is obliged to investigate the allegations. Because of this I think it was reasonable for esure to investigate the claim and take the decision to settle the way it did. I've considered the information provided to me by esure and Mr H. I must say I empathise with the position Mr H found himself in. Unfortunately, I don't think that's due to esure and its handling of the claim. esure was entitled to settle the claim on Mr H's behalf. Given the circumstances esure are entitled to record the incident as fault' and reduce Mr H's NCD in line with the policy terms and conditions. Following Mr H's complaint esure agreed to record the matter as non fault' and reinstate his NCD. And I think that's fair in the circumstances, since it puts Mr H back in the position he was in before the incident occurred. Failure to keep Mr H updated. When reporting the incident to esure Mr H asked to be kept updated on the progress of the claim. Esure accept it didn't do this. But even if it had there is no guarantee the outcome wouldn't have been the same. As stated previously there was no CCTV or independent witnesses. And the accident circumstances were such that Mr H had reversed into the third party while they were stationary, and the third party were able to evidence the damage to their vehicle. So I think it's unlikely that there would have been a different outcome had Mr H been kept updated; although I would expect esure to keep in touch. So esure apologised for not keeping Mr H updated. It also offered Mr H 150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. I think that's fair in the circumstances and will comment on this further below. Reduced No Claims Discount. Mr H isn't happy his no claims was reduced following the incident. The terms of the policy say, if we have been unable to recover all our losses in relation to the claim known as non recoverable' or fault', your NCD entitlement will be reduced at renewal. So esure acted within the terms of the policy it had been unable to recover its costs the incident was fairly recorded as a fault' claim. So while I understand Mr H is upset by this, its standard practice by insurers and I don't think esure have acted unfairly here. esure have reinstated Mr H's NCD in settlement of his complaint and I think that's fair, especially since it has recorded the incident accurately. Esure suggested Mr H go elsewhere for second year's insurance. Mr H says esure suggested he should take out insurance elsewhere when his policy came up for renewal. But insurers are obliged to advise customers of their right to shop around for insurance. This is so they can ensure they are getting the best value. Mr H has a choice of where he purchases his insurance from; if he had wanted to stay with esure he could have done so. So I can't say esure did anything wrong here. Esure sold Mr H's personal details which led to him receiving cold calls. Mr H says his father has been receiving cold calls from accident management companies asking if he wants to make a personal injury claim. I understand this must be frustrating for him however I haven't seen anything to suggest esure sold any personal details onto third parties. Summary Our investigator recommended an increased payment of 300 for distress and inconvenience. But I don't agree. A claim was made against Mr H that was evidenced by the third party; and so, as Mr H's insurer, esure had a duty to investigate and deal with that claim. While it should have kept Mr H updated on the claim's progress I'm satisfied this made no material difference to the outcome of the claim. And given the circumstances esure was entitled to record the claim the way it did and reduce Mr H's no claims discount so I can't say it did anything wrong here. It's inevitable some inconvenience will be caused as a result of having a claim made against you, and that isn't esure's fault, but overall I think it's offer of 150 is fair and reasonable compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience to Mr H. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr H but overall I think esure has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy. Where it accepted a failure in service it has offered fair compensation. It has also reinstated Mr H's NCD and recorded the incident as non-fault which will benefit Mr H in the long term and puts him back in the position he was in before the incident occurred. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions. Response to my provisional decision Esure agreed with my provisional decision. Mr H didn't provide any further comments or evidence. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In light of the fact that esure agreed with my findings set out in my provisional decision (which I've reproduced here and which forms part of this final decision), and Mr H didn't provide any further comments or evidence, I'm satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out above I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint about esure Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.