The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complained that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) didn't treat them fairly when making a home insurance claim. They didn't think Zurich provided satisfactory accommodation, disturbance payments or compensation for distress from the incident. As the names of the two people involved are the same, throughout the rest of my decision I will refer to S1 and S2. 
What happened
Following a significant explosion in a block of flats, S1/S2 couldn't access their home for around 10 months. Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. The loss adjuster offered both S1 and S2 alternative accommodation (AA). S1 accepted the offer of alternative accommodation and S2 chose to stay with friends and family. Zurich paid S1 and S2 10 a day to cover incidental expenses. S1 has asked that he is compensated by Zurich for not having access to his home for 10 months, whilst S2 is seeking compensation as he didn't feel the hotel he was offered was as good as that offered to other tenants. He also said he had to chase payment. S2 thought 10 a day expenses were insufficient. He thinks 45 a day is more reasonable. S2 says he's been highly traumatised by the explosion, so thinks he should be compensated in the region of 50,000 - 100,000 for the distress he's suffered. Zurich apologised for the delay in paying some of the expenses and offered 50 in compensation. However, it didn't accept it had treated S1 and S2 unfairly. Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didn't think S1 or S2 had been treated unfairly. He thought in the absence of any receipted expenditure, that the 10 daily disturbance allowance was reasonable and the offer 50 for delayed payments was fair. S1 and S2 disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In assessing this complaint, it's important to understand what the terms and conditions of the policy state, as these set out the expectations for S1 and S2 for the insurance cover they had. Alternative accommodation On page 15 of the policy, alternative accommodation is explained. The relevant text states if the Buildings become uninhabitable as a result of an insured risk. We will reimburse: (c) the reasonable additional expense of comparative alternative accommodation by You, Your Family and Your Pets Considering S1's circumstances, he decided not to take Zurich's offer of AA. He chose to stay with friends and family. Zurich didn't pay S1 any AA costs as S1 hadn't informed it of any costs he was expecting to incur. S1 in his complaint said having stayed with friends and family for so long that it was inevitable that at some point he'd need to contribute some money. I can understand S1's viewpoint. However, I also think it's reasonable that Zurich has opportunity to review and validate any costs it may incur upfront. Reason being, Zurich will want to validate any costs are reasonable, and where they are not, it may look to follow alternative options which are cheaper. I've also considered S1 hasn't provided any receipts of costs he's incurred for staying with friends and family. So, as Zurich hasn't been provided with information even after the event, I can't say it has been unreasonable in not paying S1 any costs for AA. As Zurich hasn't seen any evidence of S1 been financially worse off. S1 may choose to submit to Zurich some evidence of AA he's incurred it could be invoices and receipts he's received or evidence of regular payments on his bank statement. If he were to submit these to Zurich, I see no reason why it wouldn't reasonably consider these payments. I've considered S2's circumstances. His testimony centres around him receiving too low an allowance for AA compared to other tenants in the same situation as him. That's not the best way to consider this. The terms and conditions of the policy, say S2 should be given AA of an equivalent standard to his own home. I can see S2 was unhappy for the first couple of days in one hotel, but I can see this was upgraded. But, then S2's complaint focuses on the AA allowance he received. I can't see any evidence that S2 approached Zurich and informed them the allowance didn't allow him to rent a premise of equal standing to his own property. I've also considered the length of time S2 was out of his property for. It's likely he could've made a longer-term rental at a lower cost. It doesn't seem to me S2 has been disadvantaged when considering his entitlement under the policy. However, if S2 can provide evidence to Zurich that he did make them aware he was living in inadequate conditions (as the allowance didn't cover the costs of such a property), then I think it likely Zurich would be reasonable and would re-consider what it can do now after the event. But, based on the evidence available to me, I don't think S1 and S2 have been unfairly treated by Zurich regarding AA, so I don't uphold this aspect of the complaint. Disturbance Payments I've checked the policy and it doesn't set any expectation on disturbance payments. Our service thinks it's reasonable for an insurer to pay reasonable extra costs where a consumer has been displaced from their home. I can't see that S1 or S2 has provided any evidence to support a claim for extra costs. I'd expect evidence such as receipts for eating out, laundry etc. Instead, Zurich has paid a 10 daily allowance. I think this is fair in the circumstances, as Zurich hasn't had any expenditure to review and validate. 10 a day is aligned to what our service would expect where no evidence has been provided. I think if S1 and S2 can provide evidence of additional costs they've incurred then I have no doubt Zurich would consider it. I recollect S1/S2 state that they were too distressed to collect receipts. I don't think it's reasonable to expect Zurich to pay out for unreceipted expenditure above the industry standard, so I don't uphold this aspect of the complaint. Distress from the incident S2 has explained the distress the incident itself has caused him. I can't possibly imagine the trauma he has experienced. I hope he is feeling better now. However, I must explain an insurance policy won't cover every single claim, they only cover certain events and certain damages. Having checked the policy, I can't see it provides for any compensation for any kind of trauma experienced from an explosion. It's very unfortunate circumstances, but we must remember Zurich didn't cause the incident. And as the policy doesn't cover this type of compensation, I don't uphold this aspect of the complaint. Delays in receiving payments Zurich has acknowledged it caused some delays to payments to S1/S2. I can imagine this added to the stress of the situation. Zurich have offered 50 in compensation for the additional distress this caused. I've also noted that it also changed its approach to make some of the payments in advance after the issue was raised. I think this was appropriate action. I can't see evidence that S1/S2's living arrangements were compromised due to these delays. Therefore, I think the compensation offered is fair in the circumstances. Therefore, I don't need Zurich to do anymore, except ensuring this offer is paid. In summary, for the reasons, I've set out I don't uphold this complaint. I appreciate S1/S2 has made comparisons to other tenants. However, my consideration is solely on their treatment. In my opinion, they've been treated fairly under the terms and conditions of the policy and Zurich have reasonably paid expenses based on the limited information it has been furnished with. I couldn't ask it to do more than that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. I don't require Zurich Insurance PLC to do anymore. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mr S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2024.