The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on a travel insurance policy. As it is Mr E leading on the complaint, I will mostly just be referring to Mr E in this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E and their two children were on holiday abroad, using their own car. During a particular journey they were stopping regularly at petrol stations as one of their children was feeling unwell. At a certain point in the journey they noticed that some personal items were missing and realised they must have been stolen. The items had been left in the car but there was no evidence of the vehicle having been broken into. AWP declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances were not covered under the policy terms. Our investigator thought that AWP had acted reasonably in declining the claim. Mr E disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've carefully considered the obligations placed on AWP by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook' (ICOBS) includes the requirement for AWP to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim. Mr E says that the specifics of how and where the incident happened are largely irrelevant because individuals can lose their belongings under various circumstances. However, I can't agree that the circumstances are irrelevant. Insurance policies aren't designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will decide what risks it's willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the policy document. The test then is whether the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy which entirely depends on the circumstances of how the loss came about. So, I've considered the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs E held, as this forms the basis of contract between the parties. There are several terms within the policy which I consider relevant to the complaint. Looking at the policy terms, it states: Section 4 Loss of important documents What is not covered: Any loss or theft of documents left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or the custody of carriers) unless, deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation. ' And: Section 5 Baggage and baggage delay What is not covered: Any loss or theft of your baggage from an unattended vehicle unless: a) The items are locked out of sight in a secure baggage area, and b) There is physical evidence of a forced entry into the vehicle and this is confirmed in a police report within 24 hours of discovery or as soon as possible after. Any loss, theft of or damage to valuables left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation. ' And: Section 6 Personal money What is not covered: Any loss, theft of personal money left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or the custody of the carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation. ' The policy defines unattended' as: When you are not in full view of and not in a position to prevent unauthorised interference with your property or vehicle. ' Mr E's claim relates mainly to stolen cash, travel documents and valuables. He says it is key to note that the valuables were not left unattended such as overnight, or left visible in the car. But the definition of unattended doesn't mention a specific period of time. So, it wouldn't matter if the items were left unattended for five minutes or five days. Under the policy, items are not covered if they are left unattended at all. Mr E and his family were stopping regularly at petrol stations. At those times they were entering the premises and not watching the car. Mr E says he doesn't understand how he could have protected his valuable items whilst travelling as he can't carry a metal safe around with him. As I understand it, a number of the items were in Mrs E's handbag (which was also stolen). So Mrs E could have taken her handbag into the petrol station with her. Items that they were carrying on their person would not be deemed to be unattended'. As can be seen from the policy wording above, money, documents and valuables are not covered if they are left unattended. This is regardless of whether there is any evidence of the vehicle they were left in being broken into or not. For the remaining items that do not fall under the heading of personal money, documents or valuables, such as Mrs E's handbag, cover would only be provided if there was physical evidence of forced entry to the car. In this case there is no evidence of forced entry. Mr E has talked about other means that thieves now use to open vehicles, such as key cloning. It is of course possible that such means were used, although Mr E hasn't provided any evidence of that. However, the policy restricts cover to only those scenarios where physical evidence of forced entry is present. Mr E thinks the policy is unfair because it doesn't cover the wide range of circumstances he would expect travel insurance to cover, such as the scenario he found himself in. But, as already mentioned, insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium). The events they will and won't cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions. I'm satisfied the policy wording makes it clear that money, documents and valuables will not be covered if they are left unattended and that baggage is not covered if there is no physical evidence of forced entry to a vehicle. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr E and his family. They were victims of a theft which resulted a large amount of inconvenience and being considerably out of pocket. However, the question is whether the circumstances of the theft are covered under the policy terms and unfortunately they are not. I've thought very carefully about what Mr E has said. However, based on the available evidence, I'm satisfied that it was fair and reasonable of AWP to decline the claim. So, although I know he will be disappointed, I am unable to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.