The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Simplyhealth Access trading as Simplyhealth has unfairly declined her claim. 
What happened
Mrs B has a dental insurance policy through her employer with Simplyhealth. Mrs B made a claim for dental treatment which took place on a weekend. Simplyhealth declined the claim as it said the dental practice she had used wasn't open on weekends, so it didn't think Mrs B had proven her claim. Mrs B complained and unhappy with Simplyhealth's response, referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think Simplyhealth had done anything wrong. Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman's decision. She said she had provided the paperwork Simplyhealth had asked for and she could also provide additional proof such as CCTV evidence. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What I've decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't think this complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. And shouldn't unreasonably reject a claim. When a claim is made, the onus is on the claimant (in this case, Mrs B) to prove their claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. On page 10 of the policy, it says Simplyhealth will not pay a claim if it is unable to validate a claim for any reason. Simplyhealth say the dental practice wasn't open on weekends and Mrs B had her treatment on a weekend. It therefore wasn't satisfied that Mrs B had proven her claim. Mrs B provided a letter from someone at the practice which said the practice was open for some pre booked patients on weekends. Simplyhealth still didn't think it had sufficient evidence and so it maintained its decline. I don't think Simplyhealth unreasonably declined the claim as an insurer is entitled to verify and validate a claim before paying a benefit. As Mrs B says she can provide additional evidence, such as CCTV footage, she should provide this to Simplyhealth for further consideration. Whilst I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I don't think Simplyhealth has unfairly declined this claim. 